Mt 1:1The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham:
Mt 1:2Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers,
Mt 1:3And Judah begot Pharez and Zarah of Tamar, and Pharez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Aram,
Mt 1:4And Aram begot Aminadab, and Aminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon,
Mt 1:5And Salmon begot Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begot Obed of Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse,
Mt 1:6And Jesse begot David the king. And David begot Solomon of her who had been the wife of Uriah,
Mt 1:7And Solomon begot Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa,
Mt 1:8And Asa begot Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah,
Mt 1:9And Uzziah begot Jotham, and Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah,
Mt 1:10And Hezekiah begot Manasseh, and Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah.
Mt 1:11And Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
Mt 1:12And after the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Salathiel, and Salathiel begot Zerubbabel,
Mt 1:13And Zerubbabel begot Abiud, and Abiud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor,
Mt 1:14And Azor begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud,
Mt 1:15And Eliud begot Eleazar, and Eleazar begot Matthan, and Matthan begot Jacob,
Mt 1:16And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
Mt 1:17Thus all the generations from Abraham until David are fourteen generations, and from David until the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon until the Christ, fourteen generations.
Mt 1:18Now the origin of Jesus Christ was in this way: His mother, Mary, after she had been engaged to Joseph, before they came together, was found to be with child of the Holy Spirit.
Mt 1:19And Joseph her husband, being righteous and not willing to disgrace her openly, intended to send her away secretly.
Mt 1:20But while he pondered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary your wife, for that which has been begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit.
Mt 1:21And she will bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for it is He who will save His people from their sins.
Mt 1:22Now all this has happened so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
Mt 1:23“Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel” (which is translated, God with us).
Mt 1:24And when Joseph awoke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took to himself his wife.
Mt 1:25And he did not know her until she bore a son. And he called His name Jesus.
Mt 2:1Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem,
Mt 2:2Saying, Where is He who has been born King of the Jews? For we saw His star at its rising and have come to worship Him.
Mt 2:3And when Herod the king heard this, he was troubled and all Jerusalem with him.
Mt 2:4And gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.
Mt 2:5And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written through the prophet:
Mt 2:6“And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, by no means are you the least among the princes of Judah; for out of you shall come forth a Ruler, One who will shepherd My people Israel.”
Mt 2:7Then Herod, secretly calling the magi, determined accurately from them the time that the star appeared.
Mt 2:8And sending them to Bethlehem, he said, Go and find out accurately about the child. And when you find Him, report to me, so that I also may come and worship Him.
Mt 2:9And after they heard the king, they went their way, and behold, the star which they saw at its rising led them until it came and stood over the place where the child was.
Mt 2:10And when they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
Mt 2:11And they came into the house and saw the child with Mary His mother. And falling down, they worshipped Him; and opening their treasures, they offered gifts to Him, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
Mt 2:12And because they had been divinely instructed in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed by another way to their country.
Mt 2:13Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph, saying, Arise, take the child and His mother and flee into Egypt, and stay there until I tell you; for Herod is going to seek the child to destroy Him.
Mt 2:14And he arose and took the child and His mother by night and departed into Egypt,
Mt 2:15And was there until the death of Herod, in order that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, “Out of Egypt I called My Son.”
Mt 2:16Then Herod, seeing that he had been mocked by the magi, became greatly enraged, and sending out men, he did away with all the boys who were in Bethlehem and in all its borders from two years old and under, according to the time that he had accurately determined from the magi.
Mt 2:17At that time what was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying,
Mt 2:18“A voice in Ramah was heard, weeping and great lamentation: Rachel weeping for her children, and she would not be comforted, because they are no more.”
Mt 2:19And when Herod had died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
Mt 2:20Saying, Arise, take the child and His mother and go into the land of Israel, for those who seek the life of the child have died.
Mt 2:21And he arose and took the child and His mother and entered into the land of Israel.
Mt 2:22But because he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there; and having been divinely instructed in a dream, he departed into the regions of Galilee.
Mt 2:23And he came and settled in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken through the prophets might be fulfilled, He shall be called a Nazarene.
Mt 3:1Now in those days John the Baptist appeared, preaching in the wilderness of Judea
Mt 3:2And saying, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
Mt 3:3For this is he who was spoken of through Isaiah the prophet, saying, “A voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His paths.”
Mt 3:4Now this John had his garment of camel’s hair and a leather girdle around his loins, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
Mt 3:5At that time Jerusalem and all Judea and all the surrounding region of the Jordan went out to him,
Mt 3:6And they were baptized by him in the Jordan River as they confessed their sins.
Mt 3:7But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Offspring of vipers, who prompted you to flee from the coming wrath?
Mt 3:8Produce then fruit worthy of your repentance.
Mt 3:9And do not presume to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as our father; for I tell you that God is able, out of these stones, to raise up children to Abraham.
Mt 3:10And already the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
Mt 3:11I baptize you in water unto repentance, but He who is coming after me is stronger than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He Himself will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire,
Mt 3:12Whose winnowing fan is in His hand. And He will thoroughly cleanse His threshing floor and will gather His wheat into the barn, but the chaff He will burn up with unquenchable fire.
Mt 3:13Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John to be baptized by him.
Mt 3:14But John tried to prevent Him, saying, It is I who have need of being baptized by You, and You come to me?
Mt 3:15But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it for now, for it is fitting for us in this way to fulfill all righteousness. Then he permitted Him.
Mt 3:16And having been baptized, Jesus went up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming upon Him.
Mt 3:17And behold, a voice out of the heavens, saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I have found My delight.
Mt 4:1Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil.
Mt 4:2And when He had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward He became hungry.
Mt 4:3And the tempter came and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, speak that these stones may become loaves of bread.
Mt 4:4But He answered and said, It is written, “Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out through the mouth of God.”
Mt 4:5Then the devil took Him into the holy city and set Him on the wing of the temple,
Mt 4:6And said to Him, If You are the Son of God, cast Yourself down; for it is written, “To His angels He shall give charge concerning You, and on their hands they shall bear You up, lest You strike Your foot against a stone.”
Mt 4:7Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, “You shall not test the Lord your God.”
Mt 4:8Again, the devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
Mt 4:9And he said to Him, All these will I give You if You will fall down and worship me.
Mt 4:10Then Jesus said to him, Go away, Satan! For it is written, “You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.”
Mt 4:11Then the devil left Him, and behold, angels came and ministered to Him.
Mt 4:12Now when He heard that John was delivered up, He withdrew into Galilee.
Mt 4:13And leaving Nazareth, He came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is beside the sea in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali,
Mt 4:14In order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
Mt 4:15“Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the way to the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles:
Mt 4:16The people sitting in darkness have seen a great light; and to those sitting in the region and shadow of death, to them light has risen.”
Mt 4:17From that time Jesus began to proclaim and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
Mt 4:18And while He was walking beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Mt 4:19And He said to them, Come after Me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Mt 4:20And immediately leaving the nets, they followed Him.
Mt 4:21And going on from there, He saw another two brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and He called them.
Mt 4:22And immediately leaving the boat and their father, they followed Him.
Mt 4:23And Jesus went about in all of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every sickness among the people.
Mt 4:24And the report concerning Him went out into all of Syria; and they brought to Him all who were ill, those afflicted with various diseases and torments and those possessed by demons and epileptics and paralytics; and He healed them.
Mt 4:25And great crowds followed Him from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan.
Mt 5:1And when He saw the crowds, He went up to the mountain. And after He sat down, His disciples came to Him.
Mt 5:2And opening His mouth, He taught them, saying,
Mt 5:3Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 5:4Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
Mt 5:5Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
Mt 5:6Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.
Mt 5:7Blessed are the merciful, for they shall be shown mercy.
Mt 5:8Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
Mt 5:9Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God.
Mt 5:10Blessed are those who are persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 5:11Blessed are you when they reproach and persecute you, and while speaking lies, say every evil thing against you because of Me.
Mt 5:12Rejoice and exult, for your reward is great in the heavens; for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
Mt 5:13You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has become tasteless, with what shall it be salted? It is no longer good for anything except to be cast out and trampled underfoot by men.
Mt 5:14You are the light of the world. It is impossible for a city situated upon a mountain to be hidden.
Mt 5:15Nor do men light a lamp and place it under the bushel, but on the lampstand; and it shines to all who are in the house.
Mt 5:16In the same way, let your light shine before men, so that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 5:17Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets; I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill.
Mt 5:18For truly I say to you, Until heaven and earth pass away, one iota or one serif shall by no means pass away from the law until all come to pass.
Mt 5:19Therefore whoever annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches men so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of the heavens; but whoever practices and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 5:20For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 5:21You have heard that it was said to the ancients, “You shall not murder, and whoever murders shall be liable to the judgment.”
Mt 5:22But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be liable to the judgment. And whoever says to his brother, Raca, shall be liable to the judgment of the Sanhedrin; and whoever says, Moreh, shall be liable to the Gehenna of fire.
Mt 5:23Therefore if you are offering your gift at the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
Mt 5:24Leave your gift there before the altar, and first go and be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Mt 5:25Be well disposed quickly toward your opponent at law, while you are with him on the way, lest the opponent deliver you to the judge, and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison.
Mt 5:26Truly I say to you, You shall by no means come out from there until you pay the last quadrans.
Mt 5:27You have heard that it was said, “You shall not commit adultery.”
Mt 5:28But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman in order to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Mt 5:29So if your right eye stumbles you, pluck it out and cast it from you; for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna.
Mt 5:30And if your right hand stumbles you, cut it off and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to pass away into Gehenna.
Mt 5:31And it was said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.
Mt 5:32But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the cause of fornication, causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries her who has been divorced commits adultery.
Mt 5:33Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients, “You shall not break an oath, but you shall render to the Lord your oaths.”
Mt 5:34But I tell you not to swear at all; neither by heaven, because it is the throne of God;
Mt 5:35Nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of His feet; nor unto Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King;
Mt 5:36Neither shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black.
Mt 5:37But let your word be, Yes, yes; No, no; for anything more than these is of the evil one.
Mt 5:38You have heard that it was said, “An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.”
Mt 5:39But I tell you not to resist him who is evil; rather whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
Mt 5:40And to him who wishes to sue you and take your tunic, yield to him your cloak also;
Mt 5:41And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two.
Mt 5:42To him who asks of you, give; and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away.
Mt 5:43You have heard that it was said, “You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.”
Mt 5:44But I say to you, Love your enemies, and pray for those who persecute you,
Mt 5:45So that you may become sons of your Father who is in the heavens, because He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good and sends rain on the just and the unjust.
Mt 5:46For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?
Mt 5:47And if you greet only your brothers, what better thing are you doing? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?
Mt 5:48You therefore shall be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Mt 6:1But take care not to do your righteousness before men in order to be gazed at by them; otherwise, you have no reward with your Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 6:2Therefore when you give alms, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be glorified by men. Truly I say to you, They have their reward in full.
Mt 6:3But you, when you give alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing,
Mt 6:4So that your alms may be in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.
Mt 6:5And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, because they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, They have their reward in full.
Mt 6:6But you, when you pray, enter into your private room, and shut your door and pray to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.
Mt 6:7And in praying do not babble empty words as the Gentiles do; for they suppose that in their multiplicity of words they will be heard.
Mt 6:8Therefore do not be like them, for your Father knows the things that you have need of before you ask Him.
Mt 6:9You then pray in this way: Our Father who is in the heavens, Your name be sanctified;
Mt 6:10Your kingdom come; Your will be done, as in heaven, so also on earth.
Mt 6:11Give us today our daily bread.
Mt 6:12And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
Mt 6:13And do not bring us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.
Mt 6:14For if you forgive men their offenses, your heavenly Father will forgive you also;
Mt 6:15But if you do not forgive men their offenses, neither will your Father forgive your offenses.
Mt 6:16And when you fast, do not be like the sullen-faced hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces so that they may appear to men to be fasting. Truly I say to you, They have their reward in full.
Mt 6:17But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,
Mt 6:18So that you may not appear to men to be fasting, but to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.
Mt 6:19Do not store up for yourselves treasures on the earth, where moth and rust consume and where thieves dig through and steal.
Mt 6:20But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes and where thieves do not dig through nor steal.
Mt 6:21For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Mt 6:22The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is single, your whole body will be full of light;
Mt 6:23But if your eye is evil, your whole body will be dark. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!
Mt 6:24No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.
Mt 6:25Because of this, I say to you, Do not be anxious for your life, what you should eat or what you should drink; nor for your body, what you should put on. Is not the life more than food, and the body than clothing?
Mt 6:26Look at the birds of heaven. They do not sow nor reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father nourishes them. Are you not of more value than they?
Mt 6:27Who among you by being anxious can add one cubit to his stature?
Mt 6:28And why are you anxious concerning clothing? Consider well the lilies of the field, how they grow. They do not toil, neither do they spin thread.
Mt 6:29But I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these.
Mt 6:30And if God so arrays the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is cast into the furnace, will He not much more clothe you, you of little faith?
Mt 6:31Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, With what shall we be clothed?
Mt 6:32For all these things the Gentiles are anxiously seeking. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
Mt 6:33But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Mt 6:34Therefore do not be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself; sufficient for the day is its own evil.
Mt 7:1Do not judge, that you be not judged.
Mt 7:2For with what judgment you judge, you shall be judged; and with what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you.
Mt 7:3And why do you look at the splinter which is in your brother’s eye, but the beam in your eye you do not consider?
Mt 7:4Or how can you say to your brother, Let me remove the splinter from your eye, and behold, the beam is in your eye?
Mt 7:5Hypocrite, first remove the beam from your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the splinter from your brother’s eye.
Mt 7:6Do not give that which is holy to the dogs, neither cast your pearls before the hogs, lest they trample them with their feet, and turn and tear you.
Mt 7:7Ask and it shall be given to you; seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you.
Mt 7:8For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it shall be opened.
Mt 7:9Or what man is there among you who, when his son asks him for a loaf, will give him a stone?
Mt 7:10Or also when he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?
Mt 7:11If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in the heavens give good things to those who ask Him!
Mt 7:12Therefore all that you wish men would do to you, so also you do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
Mt 7:13Enter in through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter through it.
Mt 7:14Because narrow is the gate and constricted is the way that leads to life, and few are those who find it.
Mt 7:15Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves.
Mt 7:16By their fruits you will recognize them. Do men gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
Mt 7:17Even so every good tree produces good fruit, but the corrupt tree produces bad fruit.
Mt 7:18A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce good fruit.
Mt 7:19Every tree that does not produce good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
Mt 7:20So then, by their fruits you will recognize them.
Mt 7:21Not everyone who says to Me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of the heavens, but he who does the will of My Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 7:22Many will say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, was it not in Your name that we prophesied, and in Your name cast out demons, and in Your name did many works of power?
Mt 7:23And then I will declare to them: I never knew you. Depart from Me, you workers of lawlessness.
Mt 7:24Everyone therefore who hears these words of Mine and does them shall be likened to a prudent man who built his house upon the rock.
Mt 7:25And the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew, and they beat against that house; and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock.
Mt 7:26And everyone who hears these words of Mine and does not do them shall be likened to a foolish man who built his house upon the sand.
Mt 7:27And the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew, and they dashed against that house; and it fell, and its fall was great.
Mt 7:28And when Jesus finished these words, the crowds were astounded at His teaching,
Mt 7:29For He taught them as One having authority and not like their scribes.
Mt 8:1And when He came down from the mountain, great crowds followed Him.
Mt 8:2And behold, a leper, coming near, worshipped Him, saying, Lord, if You are willing, You can cleanse me.
Mt 8:3And stretching out His hand, He touched him, saying, I am willing; be cleansed! And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
Mt 8:4And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
Mt 8:5And when He entered into Capernaum, a centurion came to Him, beseeching Him
Mt 8:6And saying, Lord, my servant is lying in the house paralyzed, terribly tormented.
Mt 8:7And He said to him, I will come and heal him.
Mt 8:8But the centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not fit for You to enter under my roof; but only speak a word, and my servant will be healed.
Mt 8:9For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my slave, Do this, and he does it.
Mt 8:10Now when Jesus heard this, He marveled and said to those who followed, Truly I say to you, With no one in Israel have I found such great faith.
Mt 8:11But I say to you that many will come from the east and the west and will recline at table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of the heavens,
Mt 8:12But the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Mt 8:13And Jesus said to the centurion, Go; as you have believed, so be it done to you. And his servant was healed in that hour.
Mt 8:14And Jesus, coming into Peter’s house, saw his mother-in-law lying down and in a fever.
Mt 8:15And He touched her hand, and the fever left her. And she arose and served Him.
Mt 8:16And when evening fell, they brought to Him many who were demon-possessed, and He cast out the spirits with a word, and all those who were ill He healed,
Mt 8:17So that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, “He Himself took away our infirmities and bore our diseases.”
Mt 8:18Now when Jesus saw a crowd around Him, He gave orders to depart to the other side.
Mt 8:19And a scribe came near and said to Him, Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.
Mt 8:20And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.
Mt 8:21And another of the disciples said to Him, Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.
Mt 8:22But Jesus said to him, Follow Me, and let the dead bury their own dead.
Mt 8:23And when He stepped into the boat, His disciples followed Him.
Mt 8:24And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, so that the boat was covered by the waves; but He was sleeping.
Mt 8:25And they came near and roused Him, saying, Lord, save us; we are perishing!
Mt 8:26And He said to them, Why are you cowardly, you of little faith? Then He arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.
Mt 8:27And the men marveled, saying, What kind of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey Him?
Mt 8:28And when He came to the other side, into the region of the Gadarenes, two possessed by demons met Him, as they were coming out of the tombs, so exceedingly fierce that no one was able to pass by on that road.
Mt 8:29And behold, they cried out, saying, What do we have to do with You, Son of God? Have You come here before the time to torment us?
Mt 8:30Now there was, a good way off from them, a herd of many hogs feeding.
Mt 8:31And the demons entreated Him, saying, If You cast us out, send us into the herd of hogs.
Mt 8:32And He said to them, Go! And they came out and went into the hogs. And behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep slope into the sea, and they died in the waters.
Mt 8:33And those who were feeding them fled and went away into the city and reported everything, including what had happened to those possessed by demons.
Mt 8:34And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw Him, they entreated Him to depart from their borders.
Mt 9:1And stepping into a boat, He crossed over and came to His own city.
Mt 9:2And behold, they brought to Him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Take courage, child; your sins are forgiven.
Mt 9:3And behold, some of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemes.
Mt 9:4And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why are you thinking evil things in your hearts?
Mt 9:5For which is easier, to say, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise and walk?
Mt 9:6But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins — then He said to the paralytic, Rise, take up your bed and go to your house.
Mt 9:7And he rose and went away to his house.
Mt 9:8And when the crowds saw this, they feared and glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
Mt 9:9And as Jesus passed on from there, He saw a man sitting at the tax office, called Matthew, and He said to him, Follow Me. And he rose and followed Him.
Mt 9:10And as He was reclining at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and reclined together with Jesus and His disciples.
Mt 9:11And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to His disciples, Why does your Teacher eat with the tax collectors and sinners?
Mt 9:12Now when He heard this, He said, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those who are ill.
Mt 9:13But go and learn what this means, “I desire mercy and not sacrifice,” for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
Mt 9:14Then the disciples of John came to Him, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast much, but Your disciples do not fast?
Mt 9:15And Jesus said to them, The sons of the bridechamber cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast.
Mt 9:16No one puts a patch of unfulled cloth on an old garment, for that which fills it up pulls away from the garment, and a worse tear is made.
Mt 9:17Neither do they put new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the wineskins burst, and the wine pours out, and the wineskins are ruined; but they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.
Mt 9:18As He was speaking these things to them, behold, a ruler came and worshipped Him, saying, My daughter has just died, but come and lay Your hand on her, and she will live.
Mt 9:19And Jesus rose and followed him, and so did His disciples.
Mt 9:20And behold, a woman who had been suffering from a hemorrhage for twelve years approached from behind and touched the fringe of His garment,
Mt 9:21For she said within herself, If only I touch His garment, I will be healed.
Mt 9:22And Jesus, turning and seeing her, said, Take courage, daughter; your faith has healed you. And the woman was healed from that hour.
Mt 9:23And when Jesus came to the ruler’s house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion,
Mt 9:24He said, Depart, for the girl has not died but is sleeping. And they laughed scornfully at Him.
Mt 9:25But when the crowd had been put out, He entered and took hold of her hand, and the girl rose up.
Mt 9:26And this report went out into all that land.
Mt 9:27And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed Him, crying out and saying, Have mercy on us, Son of David!
Mt 9:28And when He came into the house, the blind men came to Him; and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to Him, Yes, Lord.
Mt 9:29Then He touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be done to you.
Mt 9:30And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly charged them saying, See that no one knows!
Mt 9:31But they went out and spread reports about Him in all that land.
Mt 9:32And as they were going out, behold, they brought to Him a dumb man possessed with a demon.
Mt 9:33And when the demon was cast out, the dumb man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, Never has anything like this been seen in Israel.
Mt 9:34But the Pharisees said, By the ruler of the demons He casts out the demons.
Mt 9:35And Jesus went about all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every sickness.
Mt 9:36And seeing the crowds, He was moved with compassion for them, because they were harassed and cast away like sheep not having a shepherd.
Mt 9:37Then He said to His disciples, The harvest is great, but the workers few;
Mt 9:38Therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest that He would thrust out workers into His harvest.
Mt 10:1And He called His twelve disciples to Him and gave them authority over unclean spirits, so that they would cast them out and heal every disease and every sickness.
Mt 10:2And the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Mt 10:3Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
Mt 10:4Simon the Cananaean, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
Mt 10:5These twelve Jesus sent forth, charging them, saying, Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter into any city of the Samaritans.
Mt 10:6But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Mt 10:7And as you go, proclaim, saying, The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
Mt 10:8Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Freely you have received; freely give.
Mt 10:9Do not acquire for yourselves gold nor silver nor copper for your belts;
Mt 10:10No bag for the journey nor two tunics nor sandals nor a staff; for the worker is worthy of his food.
Mt 10:11And into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is worthy; and there remain until you depart.
Mt 10:12And as you enter into the house, greet it.
Mt 10:13And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
Mt 10:14And whoever does not receive you nor hear your words, as you go out of that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet.
Mt 10:15Truly I say to you, It will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
Mt 10:16Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore prudent as serpents and guileless as doves.
Mt 10:17And beware of men, for they will deliver you up to sanhedrins, and in their synagogues they will scourge you.
Mt 10:18And you will also be brought before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.
Mt 10:19But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious about how or what you should speak, for it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak;
Mt 10:20For you are not the ones speaking, but the Spirit of your Father is the One speaking in you.
Mt 10:21And brother will deliver up brother to death, and father his child; and children will rise up against their parents and put them to death.
Mt 10:22And you will be hated by all because of My name. But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
Mt 10:23And when they persecute you in this city, flee into another. For truly I say to you, You shall by no means finish the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes.
Mt 10:24A disciple is not above the teacher, nor a slave above his master.
Mt 10:25It is sufficient for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. If they have called the Master of the house Beelzebul, how much more those of His household!
Mt 10:26Therefore do not fear them; for there is nothing covered which will not be revealed, and hidden which will not be made known.
Mt 10:27What I say to you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.
Mt 10:28And do not fear those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul; but rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna.
Mt 10:29Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion? And not one of them will fall to the earth apart from your Father.
Mt 10:30But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Mt 10:31Therefore do not fear; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Mt 10:32Everyone therefore who will confess in Me before men, I also will confess in him before My Father who is in the heavens;
Mt 10:33But whoever will deny Me before men, I also will deny him before My Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 10:34Do not think that I have come to bring peace on the earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Mt 10:35For I have come to set men at variance: a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;
Mt 10:36And a man’s enemies will be those of his household.
Mt 10:37He who loves father or mother above Me is not worthy of Me; and he who loves son or daughter above Me is not worthy of Me;
Mt 10:38And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me.
Mt 10:39He who finds his soul-life shall lose it, and he who loses his soul-life for My sake shall find it.
Mt 10:40He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who has sent Me.
Mt 10:41He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet’s reward, and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man’s reward.
Mt 10:42And whoever gives to one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward.
Mt 11:1And when Jesus had finished giving instructions to His twelve disciples, He departed from there to teach and to preach in their cities.
Mt 11:2Now when John heard in the prison of the works of the Christ, he sent word through his disciples
Mt 11:3And said to Him, Are You the Coming One, or should we expect another?
Mt 11:4And Jesus answered and said to them, Go, report to John the things that you hear and see:
Mt 11:5The blind receive their sight and the lame walk; the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear; and the dead are raised and the poor have the gospel announced to them;
Mt 11:6And blessed is he who is not stumbled because of Me.
Mt 11:7And as these went away, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to look at? A reed shaken by the wind?
Mt 11:8But what did you go out to see? A man arrayed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in the houses of kings.
Mt 11:9But why did you go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
Mt 11:10This is he concerning whom it is written, “Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.”
Mt 11:11Truly I say to you, Among those born of women there has not arisen one greater than John the Baptist, yet he who is least in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he.
Mt 11:12But from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of the heavens is taken by violence, and violent men seize it.
Mt 11:13For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John;
Mt 11:14And if you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah, who is to come.
Mt 11:15He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mt 11:16But to what shall I liken this generation? It is like little children sitting in the marketplaces, who call to the others
Mt 11:17And say, We have played the flute to you, and you did not dance; we have sung a dirge, and you did not mourn.
Mt 11:18For John came neither eating nor drinking; and they say, He has a demon.
Mt 11:19The Son of Man came eating and drinking; and they say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified by her works.
Mt 11:20Then He began to reproach the cities in which most of His works of power took place, because they did not repent:
Mt 11:21Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
Mt 11:22But I say to you, It will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you.
Mt 11:23And you, Capernaum, who have been exalted to heaven, to Hades you will be brought down. For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place in Sodom, it would have remained until today.
Mt 11:24But I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you.
Mt 11:25At that time Jesus answered and said, I extol You, Father, Lord of heaven and of earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants.
Mt 11:26Yes, Father, for thus it has been well-pleasing in Your sight.
Mt 11:27All things have been delivered to Me by My Father, and no one fully knows the Son except the Father; neither does anyone fully know the Father except the Son and him to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.
Mt 11:28Come to Me all who toil and are burdened, and I will give you rest.
Mt 11:29Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.
Mt 11:30For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.
Mt 12:1At that time Jesus went on the Sabbath through the grainfields. And His disciples became hungry and began to pick ears of grain and eat.
Mt 12:2But the Pharisees, seeing this, said to Him, Behold, Your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.
Mt 12:3But He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he became hungry, and those who were with him;
Mt 12:4How he entered into the house of God, and they ate the bread of the Presence, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, except for the priests only?
Mt 12:5Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless?
Mt 12:6But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here.
Mt 12:7But if you knew what this means, “I desire mercy and not sacrifice,” you would not have condemned the guiltless.
Mt 12:8For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
Mt 12:9And departing from there, He came into their synagogue.
Mt 12:10And behold, a man who had a withered hand was there. And they asked Him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? so that they might accuse Him.
Mt 12:11And He said to them, What man will there be among you who will have one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?
Mt 12:12Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep! So then it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath.
Mt 12:13Then He said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out and it was restored, as sound as the other.
Mt 12:14But the Pharisees, going out, took counsel against Him as to how they might destroy Him.
Mt 12:15But Jesus, knowing it, withdrew from there. And many followed Him, and He healed them all;
Mt 12:16And He charged them not to make Him known,
Mt 12:17In order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
Mt 12:18“Behold, My Servant whom I have chosen, My Beloved in whom My soul has found delight. I will put My Spirit upon Him, and He will announce justice to the Gentiles.
Mt 12:19He will not strive nor cry out, nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets.
Mt 12:20A bruised reed He will not break, and smoking flax He will not quench until He brings forth justice unto victory.
Mt 12:21And in His name will the Gentiles hope.”
Mt 12:22Then there was brought to Him one possessed by a demon, blind and dumb, and He healed him, so that the dumb man spoke and saw.
Mt 12:23And all the crowds were amazed and said, Is this not the Son of David?
Mt 12:24But the Pharisees, hearing this, said, This man does not cast out the demons except by Beelzebul, ruler of the demons.
Mt 12:25But knowing their thoughts, He said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself becomes desolate, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand.
Mt 12:26And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
Mt 12:27And if I, by Beelzebul, cast out the demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
Mt 12:28But if I, by the Spirit of God, cast out the demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Mt 12:29Or how can anyone enter into the house of the strong man and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man? And then he will thoroughly plunder his house.
Mt 12:30He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters.
Mt 12:31Therefore I say to you, Every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
Mt 12:32And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, neither in this age nor in the one to come.
Mt 12:33Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree corrupt and its fruit corrupt; for by the fruit the tree is known.
Mt 12:34Offspring of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
Mt 12:35The good man, out of his good treasure, brings forth good things, and the evil man, out of his evil treasure, brings forth evil things.
Mt 12:36And I say to you that every idle word which men shall speak, they will render an account concerning it in the day of judgment.
Mt 12:37For by your words you shall be justified, and by your words you shall be condemned.
Mt 12:38Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered Him, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from You.
Mt 12:39But He answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
Mt 12:40For just as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish three days and three nights, so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.
Mt 12:41Ninevite men will stand up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something more than Jonah is here.
Mt 12:42The queen of the south will rise up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something more than Solomon is here.
Mt 12:43When the unclean spirit goes out from the man, it roams through waterless places, seeking rest, and does not find it.
Mt 12:44Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came out. And it comes and finds it unoccupied, swept, and decorated.
Mt 12:45Then it goes and takes along with itself seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter in and settle down there. And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. Thus shall it be also with this evil generation.
Mt 12:46While He was still speaking to the crowds, behold, His mother and His brothers stood outside seeking to speak to Him.
Mt 12:47And someone said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak to You.
Mt 12:48But He answered and said to him who spoke to Him, Who is My mother, and who are My brothers?
Mt 12:49And stretching out His hand toward His disciples, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers!
Mt 12:50For whoever does the will of My Father who is in the heavens, he is My brother and sister and mother.
Mt 13:1On that day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea.
Mt 13:2And great crowds were gathered to Him, so that He stepped into a boat and sat, and all the crowd stood on the shore.
Mt 13:3And He spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went out to sow.
Mt 13:4And as he sowed, some seeds fell beside the way, and the birds came and devoured them.
Mt 13:5And others fell on the rocky places, where they did not have much earth, and immediately they sprang up because they had no depth of earth.
Mt 13:6But when the sun rose, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered.
Mt 13:7And others fell on the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked them.
Mt 13:8But others fell on the good earth and yielded fruit, one a hundredfold, and one sixtyfold, and one thirtyfold.
Mt 13:9He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mt 13:10And the disciples came and said to Him, Why do You speak in parables to them?
Mt 13:11And He answered and said to them, Because to you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of the heavens, but to them it has not been given.
Mt 13:12For whoever has, it shall be given to him, and he will abound; but whoever does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away from him.
Mt 13:13For this reason I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand.
Mt 13:14And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says, “In hearing you shall hear and by no means understand, and seeing you shall see and by no means perceive.
Mt 13:15For the heart of this people has become fat, and with their ears they have heard heavily, and their eyes they have closed, lest they perceive with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart, and they turn around, and I will heal them.”
Mt 13:16But blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear.
Mt 13:17For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men have desired to perceive the things that you see, and have not perceived them, and to hear the things that you hear, and have not heard them.
Mt 13:18You therefore hear the parable of the one who sowed.
Mt 13:19When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand, the evil one comes and snatches away that which has been sown in his heart. This is the one sown beside the way.
Mt 13:20And the one sown on the rocky places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy;
Mt 13:21Yet he does not have root in himself but lasts only for a time, and when affliction or persecution occurs because of the word, immediately he is stumbled.
Mt 13:22And the one sown in the thorns, this is he who hears the word, and the anxiety of the age and the deceitfulness of riches utterly choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
Mt 13:23But the one sown on the good earth, this is he who hears the word and understands, who by all means bears fruit and produces, one a hundredfold, and one sixtyfold, and one thirtyfold.
Mt 13:24Another parable He set before them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens has become like a man sowing good seed in his field.
Mt 13:25But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares in the midst of the wheat and went away.
Mt 13:26And when the blade sprouted and produced fruit, then the tares appeared also.
Mt 13:27And the slaves of the master of the house came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? Where then did the tares come from?
Mt 13:28And he said to them, An enemy has done this. And the slaves said to him, Do you want us then to go and collect them?
Mt 13:29But he said, No, lest while collecting the tares, you uproot the wheat along with them.
Mt 13:30Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, Collect first the tares and bind them into bundles to burn them up, but the wheat gather into my barn.
Mt 13:31Another parable He set before them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field,
Mt 13:32And which is smaller than all the seeds; but when it has grown, it is greater than the herbs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of heaven come and roost in its branches.
Mt 13:33Another parable He spoke to them: The kingdom of the heavens is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened.
Mt 13:34All these things Jesus spoke in parables to the crowds, and apart from a parable He spoke nothing to them,
Mt 13:35So that what was spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, “I will open My mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the world.”
Mt 13:36Then, leaving the crowds, He went into the house. And His disciples came to Him, saying, Make the parable of the tares of the field clear to us.
Mt 13:37And He answered and said, He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man;
Mt 13:38And the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the evil one;
Mt 13:39And the enemy who sowed them is the devil; and the harvest is the consummation of the age; and the reapers are angels.
Mt 13:40Therefore just as the tares are collected and burned up with fire, so will it be at the consummation of the age.
Mt 13:41The Son of Man will send His angels, and they will collect out of His kingdom all the stumbling blocks and those who practice lawlessness,
Mt 13:42And will cast them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Mt 13:43Then the righteous will shine forth like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mt 13:44The kingdom of the heavens is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man found and hid, and in his joy goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field.
Mt 13:45Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like a merchant seeking fine pearls;
Mt 13:46And finding one pearl of great value, he went and sold all that he had and bought it.
Mt 13:47Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like a net cast into the sea and gathering from every species,
Mt 13:48Which, when it was filled, they brought onto the shore, and sat down and collected the good into vessels; but the foul they cast out.
Mt 13:49So it will be at the consummation of the age: the angels will go forth and separate the evil from the midst of the righteous,
Mt 13:50And will cast them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Mt 13:51Have you understood all these things? They said to Him, Yes.
Mt 13:52And He said to them, For this reason every scribe discipled to the kingdom of the heavens is like a householder who brings forth out of his treasure things new and old.
Mt 13:53And when Jesus had finished these parables, He departed from there.
Mt 13:54And He came into His own country and taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astounded and said, Where did this man get this wisdom and these works of power?
Mt 13:55Is not this the carpenter’s son? Is not His mother called Mary, and His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?
Mt 13:56And His sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things?
Mt 13:57And they were stumbled because of Him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and in his own house.
Mt 13:58And He did not do many works of power there because of their unbelief.
Mt 14:1At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report concerning Jesus,
Mt 14:2And he said to his servants, This is John the Baptist; he has been raised from the dead, and because of this these works of power are operating through him.
Mt 14:3For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother.
Mt 14:4For John had been saying to him, It is not lawful for you to have her.
Mt 14:5And though he desired to kill him, he feared the crowd because they held him as a prophet.
Mt 14:6But when Herod’s birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced in their midst and pleased Herod;
Mt 14:7Hence, he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked.
Mt 14:8And she, being instigated by her mother, said, Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.
Mt 14:9And the king was grieved, yet because of the oaths and those reclining at table with him, he commanded it to be given.
Mt 14:10And he sent men and beheaded John in the prison.
Mt 14:11And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother.
Mt 14:12And his disciples came and took the corpse and buried it; and they came and reported the matter to Jesus.
Mt 14:13And when Jesus heard this, He withdrew from there in a boat to a deserted place privately. And when the crowds heard of it, they followed Him on foot from the cities.
Mt 14:14And going forth, He saw a great crowd, and He was moved with compassion for them and healed their sick.
Mt 14:15Now when evening fell, the disciples came to Him, saying, This place is deserted and the hour is already late. Send the crowds away that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves.
Mt 14:16But Jesus said to them, They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat.
Mt 14:17And they said to Him, We do not have anything here except five loaves and two fish.
Mt 14:18And He said, Bring them here to Me.
Mt 14:19And after commanding the crowds to recline on the grass, He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
Mt 14:20And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what was left over of the broken pieces, twelve handbaskets full.
Mt 14:21And those who ate were about five thousand men, apart from women and children.
Mt 14:22And immediately He compelled the disciples to step into the boat and to go before Him to the other side, while He sent the crowds away.
Mt 14:23And after He sent the crowds away, He went up to the mountain privately to pray. And when night fell, He was there alone.
Mt 14:24Now the boat was already in the midst of the sea, being battered by the waves, for the wind was contrary.
Mt 14:25And in the fourth watch of the night He came to them, walking on the sea.
Mt 14:26And the disciples, seeing Him walking on the sea, were startled, saying, It is a ghost! And they cried out for fear.
Mt 14:27But immediately Jesus talked to them, saying, Take courage. It is I. Do not be afraid.
Mt 14:28And Peter answered Him and said, Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the water.
Mt 14:29And He said, Come. And Peter, coming down from the boat, walked on the water and came toward Jesus.
Mt 14:30But seeing the strong wind, he became frightened; and as he began to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me!
Mt 14:31And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and took hold of him and said to him, You of little faith, why did you doubt?
Mt 14:32And when they got up into the boat, the wind ceased.
Mt 14:33And those who were in the boat worshipped Him, saying, Truly You are the Son of God.
Mt 14:34And they crossed over and came to land at Gennesaret.
Mt 14:35And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent word into all that surrounding region and brought to Him all who were ill.
Mt 14:36And they begged Him that they might only touch the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched were completely healed.
Mt 15:1Then some Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem, saying,
Mt 15:2Why do Your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
Mt 15:3And He answered and said to them, Why do you also transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition?
Mt 15:4For God said, “Honor your father and your mother,” and, “He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.”
Mt 15:5But you say, Whoever says to his father or his mother, Whatever you would have been profited by me is now a gift to God,
Mt 15:6Shall by no means honor his father or his mother; and you have deprived the word of God of its authority because of your tradition.
Mt 15:7Hypocrites! Well has Isaiah prophesied concerning you, saying,
Mt 15:8“This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart stays far away from Me;
Mt 15:9But in vain do they worship Me, teaching as teachings the commandments of men.”
Mt 15:10And He called the crowd to Him and said to them, Hear and understand:
Mt 15:11It is not that which enters into the mouth that defiles the man; but that which proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles the man.
Mt 15:12Then the disciples came and said to Him, Do You know that the Pharisees were stumbled when they heard this word?
Mt 15:13And He answered and said, Every plant which My heavenly Father has not planted shall be rooted up.
Mt 15:14Let them be. They are blind guides of the blind; and if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit.
Mt 15:15And Peter answered and said to Him, Explain this parable to us.
Mt 15:16And He said, Are you also still without understanding?
Mt 15:17Do you not understand that everything that goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled into the drain?
Mt 15:18But the things which proceed out of the mouth come out of the heart, and those defile the man.
Mt 15:19For out of the heart come evil reasonings, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings, blasphemies.
Mt 15:20These are the things which defile the man, but eating with unwashed hands does not defile the man.
Mt 15:21And Jesus went from there and withdrew into the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
Mt 15:22And behold, a Canaanite woman came out from those borders and cried out, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter suffers terribly from demon possession.
Mt 15:23But He did not answer her a word. And His disciples came and implored Him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying out after us.
Mt 15:24But He answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Mt 15:25But she came and worshipped Him, saying, Lord, help me!
Mt 15:26But He answered and said, It is not good to take the children’s bread and throw it to the little dogs.
Mt 15:27And she said, Yes, Lord, for even the little dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters’ table.
Mt 15:28Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith! Be it done to you as you wish. And her daughter was healed from that hour.
Mt 15:29And Jesus departed from there and came beside the Sea of Galilee; and He went up to the mountain and sat there.
Mt 15:30And great crowds came to Him, having with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the dumb, and many other sick ones; and they laid them at His feet, and He healed them,
Mt 15:31So that the crowd marveled, because they saw the dumb speaking, the crippled healthy and the lame walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
Mt 15:32And Jesus called His disciples to Him and said, I am moved with compassion for the crowd, because for three days now they have remained with Me and they do not have anything to eat. And I am not willing to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.
Mt 15:33And the disciples said to Him, Where can we get so many loaves in this desolate place to satisfy so great a crowd?
Mt 15:34And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few small fish.
Mt 15:35And after He commanded the crowd to recline on the ground,
Mt 15:36He took the seven loaves and the fish, and giving thanks, He broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
Mt 15:37And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what was left over of the broken pieces, seven baskets full.
Mt 15:38And those who ate were four thousand men, apart from women and children.
Mt 15:39And after He sent the crowds away, He stepped into the boat and came to the borders of Magadan.
Mt 16:1And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing Him asked Him to show them a sign out of heaven.
Mt 16:2But He answered and said to them, When evening falls, you say, There will be fair weather, for the sky is red;
Mt 16:3And in the morning, It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and gloomy. The face of the sky you know how to discern, but you cannot discern the signs of the times.
Mt 16:4An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah. And He left them and went away.
Mt 16:5And when the disciples came to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.
Mt 16:6And Jesus said to them, Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Mt 16:7But they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we did not take bread.
Mt 16:8And Jesus, knowing it, said, Why are you reasoning among yourselves, you of little faith, because you have no bread?
Mt 16:9Do you not yet understand nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand and how many handbaskets you took up?
Mt 16:10Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand and how many baskets you took up?
Mt 16:11How is it that you do not understand that it was not about bread that I spoke to you? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Mt 16:12Then they understood that He did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Mt 16:13Now when Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, He asked His disciples, saying, Who do men say that the Son of Man is?
Mt 16:14And they said, Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and still others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
Mt 16:15He said to them, But you, who do you say that I am?
Mt 16:16And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Mt 16:17And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but My Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 16:18And I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it.
Mt 16:19I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever you bind on the earth shall have been bound in the heavens, and whatever you loose on the earth shall have been loosed in the heavens.
Mt 16:20Then He charged the disciples not to tell anyone that He was the Christ.
Mt 16:21From that time Jesus began to show to His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and on the third day be raised.
Mt 16:22And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him, saying, God be merciful to You, Lord! This shall by no means happen to You!
Mt 16:23But He turned and said to Peter, Get behind Me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to Me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of men.
Mt 16:24Then Jesus said to His disciples, If anyone wants to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
Mt 16:25For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever loses his soul-life for My sake shall find it.
Mt 16:26For what shall a man be profited if he gains the whole world, but forfeits his soul-life? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul-life?
Mt 16:27For the Son of Man is to come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will repay each man according to his doings.
Mt 16:28Truly I say to you, There are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.
Mt 17:1And after six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and brought them up to a high mountain privately.
Mt 17:2And He was transfigured before them, and His face shone like the sun, and His garments became as white as the light.
Mt 17:3And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, conversing with Him.
Mt 17:4And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You are willing, I will make three tents here, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah.
Mt 17:5While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I have found My delight. Hear Him!
Mt 17:6And when the disciples heard this, they fell on their face and were greatly frightened.
Mt 17:7And Jesus came to them and touched them and said, Arise, and do not be afraid.
Mt 17:8And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus Himself alone.
Mt 17:9And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.
Mt 17:10And the disciples asked Him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
Mt 17:11And He answered and said, Elijah indeed is coming and will restore all things;
Mt 17:12But I say to you that Elijah has already come; and they did not recognize him, but did with him the things they wished. So also the Son of Man is about to suffer by them.
Mt 17:13Then the disciples understood that He spoke to them concerning John the Baptist.
Mt 17:14And when they came to the crowd, a man came to Him, falling on his knees before Him and saying,
Mt 17:15Lord, have mercy on my son, for he has epilepsy and suffers terribly; for often he falls into the fire and often into the water.
Mt 17:16And I brought him to Your disciples, and they were not able to heal him.
Mt 17:17And Jesus answered and said, O unbelieving and perverted generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to Me.
Mt 17:18And Jesus rebuked it, and the demon came out from him; and the boy was healed from that hour.
Mt 17:19Then the disciples, coming to Jesus privately, said, Why were we not able to cast it out?
Mt 17:20And He said to them, Because of your little faith; for truly I say to you, If you have faith like a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move; and nothing will be impossible to you.
Mt 17:21But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.
Mt 17:22And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men,
Mt 17:23And they will kill Him, and on the third day He will be raised. And they were greatly grieved.
Mt 17:24And when they came to Capernaum, those who take up the temple tax came to Peter and said, Does not your Teacher pay the temple tax?
Mt 17:25He said, Yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive custom or poll tax, from their sons or from strangers?
Mt 17:26And when he said, From strangers, Jesus said to him, So then the sons are free.
Mt 17:27But that we do not stumble them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up. And when you open its mouth, you will find a stater; take that and give it to them for Me and you.
Mt 18:1In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Who then is greatest in the kingdom of the heavens?
Mt 18:2And He called a little child to Him and stood him in their midst
Mt 18:3And said, Truly I say to you, Unless you turn and become like little children, you shall by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 18:4He therefore who will humble himself like this little child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 18:5And whoever receives one such little child because of My name, receives Me;
Mt 18:6And whoever stumbles one of these little ones who believe into Me, it is more profitable for him that a great millstone be hung around his neck and he be drowned in the open sea.
Mt 18:7Woe to the world because of stumbling blocks! For it is necessary for stumbling blocks to come, but woe to that man through whom the stumbling block comes.
Mt 18:8If your hand or your foot stumbles you, cut it off and cast it from you; it is better for you to enter into life maimed or lame than to have two hands or two feet and be cast into the eternal fire.
Mt 18:9And if your eye stumbles you, pluck it out and cast it from you; it is better for you to enter into life with one eye than to have two eyes and be cast into the Gehenna of fire.
Mt 18:10See that you do not despise one of these little ones, for I say to you that their angels in the heavens continually behold the face of My Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 18:11For the Son of Man has come to save that which is lost.
Mt 18:12What do you think? If any man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, will he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go and seek the one that has gone astray?
Mt 18:13And if it so happens that he finds it, truly I say to you that he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray.
Mt 18:14In the same way, it is not the will of your Father who is in the heavens that one of these little ones perish.
Mt 18:15Moreover if your brother sins against you, go, reprove him between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother.
Mt 18:16But if he does not hear you, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
Mt 18:17And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church; and if he refuses to hear the church also, let him be to you just like the Gentile and the tax collector.
Mt 18:18Truly I say to you, Whatever you bind on the earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on the earth shall have been loosed in heaven.
Mt 18:19Again, truly I say to you that if two of you are in harmony on earth concerning any matter for which they ask, it will be done for them from My Father who is in the heavens.
Mt 18:20For where there are two or three gathered into My name, there am I in their midst.
Mt 18:21Then Peter came and said to Him, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times?
Mt 18:22Jesus said to him, I do not say to you, Up to seven times, but, Up to seventy times seven.
Mt 18:23For this reason the kingdom of the heavens has become like a king who desired to settle accounts with his slaves.
Mt 18:24And when he began to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him.
Mt 18:25But since he did not have the means to repay, the master commanded him to be sold, as well as his wife and children and all that he had, and repayment to be made.
Mt 18:26Then the slave fell down and worshipped him, saying, Be patient with me and I will repay you all.
Mt 18:27And the master of that slave was moved with compassion and released him and forgave him the loan.
Mt 18:28But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii, and he took hold of him and began to choke him, saying, Repay me what you owe.
Mt 18:29Then his fellow slave fell down and begged him, saying, Be patient with me and I will repay you.
Mt 18:30But he would not; instead, he went away and threw him into prison until he would repay what was owed.
Mt 18:31Then his fellow slaves, seeing what had taken place, were greatly grieved and came and explained fully to their master all that had taken place.
Mt 18:32Then his master called him to him and said to him, Evil slave, all that debt I forgave you, because you begged me.
Mt 18:33Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave even as I had mercy on you?
Mt 18:34And his master became angry and delivered him to the torturers until he would repay all that was owed.
Mt 18:35So also will My heavenly Father do to you if each of you does not forgive his brother from your hearts.
Mt 19:1And when Jesus finished these words, He departed from Galilee and came into the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan.
Mt 19:2And great crowds followed Him, and He healed them there.
Mt 19:3And some Pharisees came to Him, testing Him and saying, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any cause?
Mt 19:4And He answered and said, Have you not read that He who created them from the beginning made them male and female,
Mt 19:5And said, “For this cause shall a man leave his father and his mother and shall be joined to his wife; and the two shall be one flesh”?
Mt 19:6So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has yoked together, let man not separate.
Mt 19:7They said to Him, Why then did Moses command us to give her a certificate of divorce and divorce her?
Mt 19:8He said to them, Moses, because of your hardness of heart, allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been so.
Mt 19:9But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except for fornication, and marries another, commits adultery; and he who marries her who has been divorced commits adultery.
Mt 19:10His disciples said to Him, If the case of the man with his wife is like this, it is not profitable to marry.
Mt 19:11And He said to them, Not all men can accept this word, but only those to whom it has been given.
Mt 19:12For there are eunuchs who were born so from their mother’s womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs because of the kingdom of the heavens. He who can accept it, let him accept it.
Mt 19:13Then little children were brought to Him that He might lay His hands on them and pray, but the disciples rebuked them.
Mt 19:14But Jesus said, Allow the little children and do not prevent them from coming to Me, for of such is the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 19:15And after He laid His hands on them, He went on from there.
Mt 19:16And behold, someone came to Him and said, Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?
Mt 19:17And He said to him, Why do you ask Me concerning what is good? There is only One who is good. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments.
Mt 19:18He said to Him, Which ones? And Jesus said, “You shall not murder; you shall not commit adultery; you shall not steal; you shall not bear false witness;
Mt 19:19Honor your father and mother; and you shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Mt 19:20The young man said to Him, All these things I have kept. What do I still lack?
Mt 19:21Jesus said to him, If you want to be perfect, go, sell your possessions and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in the heavens; and come, follow Me.
Mt 19:22But the young man, hearing this word, went away sorrowing, for he had many possessions.
Mt 19:23And Jesus said to His disciples, Truly I say to you, Only with difficulty will a rich man enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Mt 19:24And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Mt 19:25And when the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished and said, Who then can be saved?
Mt 19:26And looking upon them, Jesus said to them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
Mt 19:27Then Peter answered and said to Him, Behold, we have left all and followed You. What then will there be for us?
Mt 19:28And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed Me, in the restoration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of His glory, you also shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Mt 19:29And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for My name’s sake shall receive a hundred times as much and shall inherit eternal life.
Mt 19:30But many first will be last, and many last first.
Mt 20:1For the kingdom of the heavens is like a man, who is a householder, who went out early in the morning to hire workmen for his vineyard.
Mt 20:2And having agreed with the workmen for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
Mt 20:3And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
Mt 20:4And to those he said, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you. And they went.
Mt 20:5And again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour and did likewise.
Mt 20:6And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing, and said to them, Why have you been standing here all the day idle?
Mt 20:7They said to him, Because no one has hired us. He said to them, You also go into the vineyard.
Mt 20:8And when evening fell, the master of the vineyard said to his steward, Call the workmen and pay them their wages, beginning from the last ones to the first.
Mt 20:9And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, they received each a denarius.
Mt 20:10And when the first ones came, they supposed that they would receive more. And they themselves also received each a denarius.
Mt 20:11And when they received it, they murmured against the householder,
Mt 20:12Saying, These last ones worked one hour, and you have made them equal to us who bore the burden of the day and the scorching heat.
Mt 20:13But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I am doing nothing unrighteous to you. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?
Mt 20:14Take what is yours and go. I want to give to this last one even as I have given to you.
Mt 20:15Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is mine? Or is your eye evil because I am good?
Mt 20:16Thus shall the last be first and the first last.
Mt 20:17And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, He took the twelve disciples aside privately, and on the way He said to them,
Mt 20:18Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes. And they will condemn Him to death,
Mt 20:19And deliver Him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge and to crucify Him, and on the third day He will be raised.
Mt 20:20Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Him with her sons, worshipping and asking something of Him.
Mt 20:21And He said to her, What do you want? She said to Him, Say that these two sons of mine will sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your kingdom.
Mt 20:22But Jesus answered and said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink? They said to Him, We are able.
Mt 20:23He said to them, My cup you shall indeed drink, but to sit on My right and on My left, this is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by My Father.
Mt 20:24And when the ten heard this, they were indignant concerning the two brothers.
Mt 20:25But Jesus called them to Him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and the great exercise authority over them.
Mt 20:26It shall not be so among you; but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant,
Mt 20:27And whoever wants to be first among you shall be your slave;
Mt 20:28Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
Mt 20:29And as they were going out from Jericho, a great crowd followed Him.
Mt 20:30And behold, two blind men sitting by the road, hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!
Mt 20:31And the crowd rebuked them so that they would be silent, but they cried out the more, saying, Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!
Mt 20:32And Jesus, standing still, called them and said, What do you want Me to do for you?
Mt 20:33They said to Him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
Mt 20:34And Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately they received their sight and followed Him.
Mt 21:1And when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
Mt 21:2Saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her; untie them and lead them to Me.
Mt 21:3And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them; and immediately he will send them.
Mt 21:4Now this took place in order that what was spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
Mt 21:5“Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your King is coming to you, meek and mounted on a donkey, and on a colt, a foal of a beast of burden.”
Mt 21:6And the disciples went and did as Jesus directed them,
Mt 21:7And led the donkey and the colt. And they put their garments on them, and He sat upon them.
Mt 21:8And most of the crowd spread their own garments in the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them in the road.
Mt 21:9And the crowds who went before Him and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
Mt 21:10And when He entered into Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, Who is this?
Mt 21:11And the crowds said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee.
Mt 21:12And Jesus entered into the temple and cast out all those who were selling and buying in the temple. And He overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling the doves,
Mt 21:13And He said to them, It is written, “My house shall be called a house of prayer,” but you are making it a den of robbers.
Mt 21:14And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them.
Mt 21:15But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonders that He did and the children who were crying out in the temple and saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, they were indignant.
Mt 21:16And they said to Him, Do You hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read, “Out of the mouth of infants and sucklings You have perfected praise”?
Mt 21:17And leaving them, He went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there.
Mt 21:18Now in the morning as He returned to the city, He became hungry.
Mt 21:19And seeing a fig tree on the way, He came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And He said to it, May there no longer be fruit from you forever! And the fig tree was instantly dried up.
Mt 21:20And when the disciples saw this, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree instantly dry up?
Mt 21:21And Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and cast into the sea, it will happen.
Mt 21:22And all that you ask in prayer, if you believe, you will receive.
Mt 21:23And when He came into the temple, the chief priests and elders of the people came to Him as He was teaching and said, By what authority do You do these things? And who gave You this authority?
Mt 21:24And Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell Me, I also will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mt 21:25The baptism of John, from where did it come, from heaven or from men? And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say to us, Why then did you not believe him?
Mt 21:26But if we say, From men, we fear the crowd, for all hold John as a prophet.
Mt 21:27And they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. He too said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mt 21:28But what do you think? A man had two children. And he came to his first son and said, Child, go today and work in the vineyard.
Mt 21:29And he answered and said, I do not want to; yet later he regretted and went.
Mt 21:30And he came to the other and said likewise. And he answered and said, I will, sir; yet he did not go.
Mt 21:31Which of the two did the will of the father? They said, The first. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and the harlots are going into the kingdom of God before you.
Mt 21:32For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him. And you, when you saw it, did not later regret it to believe him.
Mt 21:33Hear another parable. There was a man, a householder, who planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it, and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower; and he leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad.
Mt 21:34And when the time to harvest the fruit drew near, he sent his slaves to the vinedressers to get his fruit.
Mt 21:35And the vinedressers took his slaves and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
Mt 21:36Again, he sent some other slaves, more than the first, and they did likewise to them.
Mt 21:37Then later he sent to them his son, saying, They will respect my son.
Mt 21:38But the vinedressers, when they saw the son, said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and take possession of his inheritance.
Mt 21:39And they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed him.
Mt 21:40Therefore when the master of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vinedressers?
Mt 21:41They said to Him, He will miserably destroy those evil men and will lease the vineyard to other vinedressers, who will give the fruit to him in their seasons.
Mt 21:42Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the Scriptures, “The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner. This was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes”?
Mt 21:43Therefore I say to you that the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and shall be given to a nation producing its fruit.
Mt 21:44And he who falls on this stone shall be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it shall crush him to powder and scatter him like chaff.
Mt 21:45And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard His parables, they perceived that He was speaking concerning them.
Mt 21:46And though they sought to seize Him, they feared the crowds because they held Him as a prophet.
Mt 22:1And Jesus answered and spoke again in parables to them, saying,
Mt 22:2The kingdom of the heavens has become like a king who prepared a wedding feast for his son.
Mt 22:3And he sent his slaves to call those who had been called to the wedding feast, yet they would not come.
Mt 22:4Again, he sent other slaves, saying, Tell those who have been called, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatted cattle have been slain, and all things are ready. Come to the wedding feast.
Mt 22:5But they disregarded it and went off, one to his own field and another to his business,
Mt 22:6And the rest took hold of his slaves, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
Mt 22:7And the king became angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Mt 22:8Then he said to his slaves, The wedding feast is ready, but those who have been called were not worthy.
Mt 22:9Go therefore to the crossroads, and as many as you find, call to the wedding feast.
Mt 22:10And those slaves went out into the streets and gathered all whom they found, both evil and good, and the wedding feast was filled with those reclining at table.
Mt 22:11But when the king came in to look at those reclining at table, he saw there a man who was not clothed with a wedding garment,
Mt 22:12And he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless.
Mt 22:13Then the king said to the servants, Bind his feet and hands, and cast him out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Mt 22:14For many are called but few are chosen.
Mt 22:15Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might ensnare Him in His words.
Mt 22:16And they sent to Him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that You are true and that You teach the way of God in truth and do not fear anyone, for You do not regard the person of men.
Mt 22:17Tell us therefore, What do You think? Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
Mt 22:18But Jesus, knowing their evil intent, said, Why do you tempt Me, hypocrites?
Mt 22:19Show Me the coin for the tribute. And they brought to Him a denarius.
Mt 22:20And He said to them, Whose is this image and inscription?
Mt 22:21They said, Caesar’s. Then He said to them, Render then the things that are Caesar’s to Caesar and the things that are God’s to God.
Mt 22:22And when they heard this, they marveled. And they left Him and went away.
Mt 22:23On that day some Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection, came to Him and questioned Him,
Mt 22:24Saying, Teacher, Moses said, If anyone dies and does not have children, his brother as next of kin shall marry his wife and raise up seed to his brother.
Mt 22:25Now there were seven brothers with us. And the first married and died, and having no seed, he left his wife to his brother;
Mt 22:26Likewise also the second and the third until the seventh.
Mt 22:27And last of all the woman died.
Mt 22:28In the resurrection, then, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her.
Mt 22:29And Jesus answered and said to them, You err, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God.
Mt 22:30For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Mt 22:31But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
Mt 22:32“I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob”? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
Mt 22:33And when the crowds heard this, they were astounded at His teaching.
Mt 22:34But the Pharisees, when they heard that He had muzzled the Sadducees, gathered themselves together.
Mt 22:35And one of them, a lawyer, asked Him a question, testing Him,
Mt 22:36Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?
Mt 22:37And He said to him, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.”
Mt 22:38This is the great and first commandment.
Mt 22:39And the second is like it: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Mt 22:40On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets.
Mt 22:41Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus questioned them,
Mt 22:42Saying, What do you think concerning the Christ? Whose son is He? They said to Him, David’s.
Mt 22:43He said to them, How then does David in spirit call Him Lord, saying,
Mt 22:44“The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet”?
Mt 22:45If then David calls Him Lord, how is He his son?
Mt 22:46And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did anyone from that day dare to question Him anymore.
Mt 23:1Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to His disciples,
Mt 23:2Saying, The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in Moses’ seat;
Mt 23:3Therefore all that they tell you, do and keep; but do not do according to their works, for they say things and do not do them.
Mt 23:4And they bind burdens, heavy and hard to bear, and lay them on men’s shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with their finger.
Mt 23:5And all their works they do to be seen by men, for they broaden their phylacteries and enlarge the fringes of their garments,
Mt 23:6And they love the place of honor at the dinners and the chief seats in the synagogues
Mt 23:7And the salutations in the marketplaces and to be called by men, Rabbi.
Mt 23:8But you, do not be called Rabbi, for One is your Teacher, and you are all brothers.
Mt 23:9And do not call anyone on earth your father, for One is your Father, He who is in the heavens.
Mt 23:10Neither be called instructors, because One is your Instructor, the Christ.
Mt 23:11And the greatest among you shall be your servant.
Mt 23:12And he who will exalt himself shall be humbled, and he who will humble himself shall be exalted.
Mt 23:13But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you close off the kingdom of the heavens in the face of men; for you do not enter in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to enter.
Mt 23:14But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour the widows’ houses, even while for a pretense you make long prayers. For this reason you shall receive greater judgment.
Mt 23:15Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you go about the sea and the dry land to make one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of Gehenna as yourselves.
Mt 23:16Woe to you, blind guides, who say, Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound.
Mt 23:17Fools and blind men, which is greater, the gold or the temple which sanctifies the gold?
Mt 23:18And, Whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift which is upon it, he is bound.
Mt 23:19Blind men, which is greater, the gift or the altar which sanctifies the gift?
Mt 23:20Therefore he who swears by the altar swears by it and by all the things upon it;
Mt 23:21And he who swears by the temple swears by it and by Him who dwells in it;
Mt 23:22And he who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by Him who sits upon it.
Mt 23:23Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you give a tenth of the mint and the anise and the cummin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law — justice and mercy and faithfulness. But these you should have done and not neglected the others.
Mt 23:24Blind guides, who strain out the gnat but swallow the camel!
Mt 23:25Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you cleanse the outside of the cup and the dish, but inwardly they are full of extortion and self-indulgence.
Mt 23:26Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and the dish so that their outside also may become clean.
Mt 23:27Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you resemble whitewashed graves, which outwardly appear beautiful but inwardly are full of dead men’s bones and all uncleanness.
Mt 23:28So you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
Mt 23:29Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build up the graves of the prophets and adorn the tombs of the righteous,
Mt 23:30And say, If we had been there in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.
Mt 23:31So then you testify against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets.
Mt 23:32And you, fill up the measure of your fathers!
Mt 23:33Serpents! Brood of vipers! How shall you escape the judgment of Gehenna?
Mt 23:34Therefore, behold, I send to you prophets and wise men and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city,
Mt 23:35So that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zachariah, son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar.
Mt 23:36Truly I say to you, All these things shall come upon this generation.
Mt 23:37Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How often I desired to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not!
Mt 23:38Behold, your house is left to you desolate.
Mt 23:39For I say to you, You shall by no means see Me from now on until you say, Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.
Mt 24:1And Jesus came out from the temple and was going away, and His disciples came to Him to show Him the buildings of the temple.
Mt 24:2But He answered and said to them, Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, There shall by no means be left here a stone upon a stone, which shall not be thrown down.
Mt 24:3And as He sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying, Tell us, When will these things be? And what will be the sign of Your coming and of the consummation of the age?
Mt 24:4And Jesus answered and said to them, See that no one leads you astray.
Mt 24:5For many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray.
Mt 24:6And you will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for it must happen; but the end is not yet.
Mt 24:7For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places.
Mt 24:8All these things are the beginning of birth pangs.
Mt 24:9Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and will kill you, and you will be hated by all the nations because of My name.
Mt 24:10And at that time many will be stumbled and will deliver up one another and will hate one another.
Mt 24:11And many false prophets will arise and will lead many astray.
Mt 24:12And because lawlessness will be multiplied, the love of the many will grow cold.
Mt 24:13But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
Mt 24:14And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole inhabited earth for a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come.
Mt 24:15Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let him who reads understand),
Mt 24:16Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains;
Mt 24:17Let him who is on the housetop not come down to take the things out of his house;
Mt 24:18And let him who is in the field not turn back to take his garment.
Mt 24:19But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days.
Mt 24:20And pray that your flight may not be in winter, nor on a Sabbath,
Mt 24:21For at that time there will be great tribulation, such as has not occurred from the beginning of the world until now, nor shall by any means ever occur.
Mt 24:22And unless those days had been cut short, no flesh would be saved; but on account of the chosen, those days will be cut short.
Mt 24:23At that time if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! or, Here! do not believe it.
Mt 24:24For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen.
Mt 24:25Behold, I have told you beforehand.
Mt 24:26Therefore if they say to you, Behold, He is in the wilderness, do not go forth; Behold, He is in the inner rooms, do not believe it.
Mt 24:27For just as the lightning comes forth from the east and shines to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
Mt 24:28Wherever the corpse is, there will the vultures be gathered together.
Mt 24:29And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Mt 24:30And at that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the land will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
Mt 24:31And He will send His angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather His chosen together from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other end.
Mt 24:32But learn the parable from the fig tree: As soon as its branch has become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that the summer is near.
Mt 24:33So also you, when you see all these things, know that it is near, at the doors.
Mt 24:34Truly I say to you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all these things happen.
Mt 24:35Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
Mt 24:36But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of the heavens nor the Son, but the Father only.
Mt 24:37For just as the days of Noah were, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
Mt 24:38For as they were in those days before the flood, eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day in which Noah entered into the ark,
Mt 24:39And they did not know that judgment was coming until the flood came and took all away, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be.
Mt 24:40At that time two men will be in the field; one is taken and one is left.
Mt 24:41Two women will be grinding at the mill; one is taken and one is left.
Mt 24:42Watch therefore, for you do not know on what day your Lord comes.
Mt 24:43But know this, that if the householder had known in which watch the thief was coming, he would have watched and would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
Mt 24:44For this reason you also be ready, because at an hour when you do not expect it, the Son of Man is coming.
Mt 24:45Who then is the faithful and prudent slave, whom the master has set over his household to give them food at the proper time?
Mt 24:46Blessed is that slave whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing.
Mt 24:47Truly I say to you that he will set him over all his possessions.
Mt 24:48But if that evil slave says in his heart, My master delays,
Mt 24:49And begins to beat his fellow slaves and eats and drinks with the drunken,
Mt 24:50The master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour which he does not know,
Mt 24:51And will cut him asunder and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Mt 25:1At that time the kingdom of the heavens will be likened to ten virgins, who took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
Mt 25:2And five of them were foolish and five were prudent.
Mt 25:3For the foolish, when they took their lamps, did not take oil with them;
Mt 25:4But the prudent took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
Mt 25:5And while the bridegroom delayed, they all became drowsy and slept.
Mt 25:6But at midnight there was a cry, Behold, the bridegroom! Go forth to meet him!
Mt 25:7Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their own lamps.
Mt 25:8And the foolish said to the prudent, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.
Mt 25:9But the prudent answered, saying, Perhaps there will not be enough for us and for you; go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.
Mt 25:10And as they were going away to buy, the bridegroom came; and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast. And the door was shut.
Mt 25:11And later the rest of the virgins came also, saying, Lord, lord, open to us!
Mt 25:12But he answered and said, Truly I say to you, I do not know you.
Mt 25:13Watch therefore, for you do not know the day nor the hour.
Mt 25:14For the kingdom of the heavens is just like a man about to go abroad, who called his own slaves and delivered to them his possessions.
Mt 25:15To one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one, to each according to his own ability. And he went abroad.
Mt 25:16Immediately he who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained another five.
Mt 25:17Similarly, he who had received the two gained another two.
Mt 25:18But he who had received the one went off and dug in the earth and hid his master’s money.
Mt 25:19Now after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them.
Mt 25:20And he who had received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, Master, you delivered to me five talents; behold, I have gained another five talents.
Mt 25:21His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things; I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.
Mt 25:22And he who had received the two talents also came and said, Master, you delivered to me two talents; behold, I have gained another two talents.
Mt 25:23His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things; I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.
Mt 25:24Then he who had received the one talent also came and said, Master, I knew about you, that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not winnow.
Mt 25:25And I was afraid and went off and hid your talent in the earth; behold, you have what is yours.
Mt 25:26And his master answered and said to him, Evil and slothful slave, you knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I did not winnow.
Mt 25:27Therefore you should have deposited my money with the money changers; and when I came, I would have recovered what is mine with interest.
Mt 25:28Take away therefore the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
Mt 25:29For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he shall abound; but from him who does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away from him.
Mt 25:30And cast out the useless slave into the outer darkness. In that place there will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Mt 25:31But when the Son of Man comes in His glory and all the angels with Him, at that time He will sit on the throne of His glory.
Mt 25:32And all the nations will be gathered before Him, and He will separate them from one another, just as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
Mt 25:33And He will set the sheep on His right hand and the goats on the left.
Mt 25:34Then the King will say to those on His right hand, Come, you who are blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Mt 25:35For I was hungry and you gave Me something to eat; I was thirsty and you gave Me a drink; I was a stranger and you took Me in,
Mt 25:36Naked and you clothed Me; I was sick and you visited Me; I was in prison and you came to Me.
Mt 25:37Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, Lord, when have we seen You hungry and have fed You, or thirsty and have given You a drink?
Mt 25:38And when have we seen You a stranger and have taken You in, or naked and have clothed You?
Mt 25:39And when have we seen You sick or in prison and have come to You?
Mt 25:40And the King will answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you have done it to one of these, the least of My brothers, you have done it to Me.
Mt 25:41Then He will say also to those on the left, Go away from Me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
Mt 25:42For I was hungry and you did not give Me anything to eat; I was thirsty and you did not give Me a drink;
Mt 25:43I was a stranger and you did not take Me in; naked and you did not clothe Me; sick and in prison, and you did not visit Me.
Mt 25:44Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when have we seen You hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to You?
Mt 25:45Then He will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, neither have you done it to Me.
Mt 25:46And these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.
Mt 26:1And when Jesus finished all these words, He said to His disciples,
Mt 26:2You know that after two days the Passover takes place, and the Son of Man is being delivered up to be crucified.
Mt 26:3Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together in the courtyard of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas,
Mt 26:4And they took counsel together to seize Jesus by craftiness and kill Him.
Mt 26:5But they said, Not at the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people.
Mt 26:6Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
Mt 26:7A woman came to Him, having an alabaster flask of ointment of great value, and she poured it on His head as He reclined at table.
Mt 26:8But when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste?
Mt 26:9For this could have been sold for much and given to the poor.
Mt 26:10But Jesus, knowing it, said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? She has done a noble deed to Me.
Mt 26:11For the poor you have with you always, but you do not always have Me.
Mt 26:12For in pouring out this ointment on My body, she has done it for My burial.
Mt 26:13Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done shall also be told as a memorial of her.
Mt 26:14At that time one of the twelve, the one called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
Mt 26:15And said, What are you willing to give me, and I will deliver Him to you? And they weighed out to him thirty pieces of silver.
Mt 26:16And from then on he sought opportunity to deliver Him up.
Mt 26:17Now on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where do You want us to prepare for You to eat the passover?
Mt 26:18And He said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, The Teacher says, My time is near. I am keeping the passover at your house with My disciples.
Mt 26:19And the disciples did as Jesus directed them, and they prepared the passover.
Mt 26:20And when evening fell, He reclined at table with the twelve.
Mt 26:21And as they were eating, He said, Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me.
Mt 26:22And being greatly grieved, each one of them began to say to Him, I am not the one, am I, Lord?
Mt 26:23And He answered and said, The one who dips his hand with Me in the dish, this one will betray Me.
Mt 26:24The Son of Man is going away, even as it is written concerning Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born.
Mt 26:25And Judas, who was betraying Him, answered and said, I am not the one, am I, Rabbi? He said to him, You have said it yourself.
Mt 26:26And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it, and He broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat; this is My body.
Mt 26:27And He took a cup and gave thanks, and He gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you,
Mt 26:28For this is My blood of the covenant, which is being poured out for many for forgiveness of sins.
Mt 26:29But I say to you, I shall by no means drink of this product of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of My Father.
Mt 26:30And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Mt 26:31Then Jesus said to them, You will all be stumbled because of Me this night, for it is written, “I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.”
Mt 26:32But after I have been raised, I will go before you into Galilee.
Mt 26:33Then Peter answered and said to Him, If all will be stumbled because of You, I will never be stumbled.
Mt 26:34Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that in this night, before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.
Mt 26:35Peter said to Him, Even if I must die with You, I will by no means deny You. And all the disciples said likewise.
Mt 26:36Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and He said to the disciples, Sit here while I go over there and pray.
Mt 26:37And taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee aside, He began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed.
Mt 26:38Then He said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with Me.
Mt 26:39And going forward a little, He fell on His face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me; yet not as I will, but as You will.
Mt 26:40And He came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, So were you not able to watch with Me for one hour?
Mt 26:41Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Mt 26:42Again, going away a second time, He prayed, saying, My Father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it, Your will be done.
Mt 26:43And coming again, He found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
Mt 26:44And leaving them, He went away again and prayed a third time, saying the same word again.
Mt 26:45Then He came to the disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour has drawn near, and the Son of Man is being delivered up into the hands of sinners.
Mt 26:46Arise, let us be going. Behold, the one who is betraying Me has drawn near.
Mt 26:47And while He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and elders of the people.
Mt 26:48Now the one who was betraying Him had given them a sign, saying, Whomever I kiss, He is the one; seize Him.
Mt 26:49And immediately he came to Jesus and said, Rejoice, Rabbi, and kissed Him affectionately.
Mt 26:50But Jesus said to him, Friend, what are you here for? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized Him.
Mt 26:51And behold, one of those with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, and struck the slave of the high priest and took off his ear.
Mt 26:52Then Jesus said to him, Return your sword to its place, for all those who take up the sword will perish by the sword.
Mt 26:53Or do you think that I cannot beseech My Father, and He will provide Me at once with more than twelve legions of angels?
Mt 26:54How then shall the Scriptures be fulfilled which say that it must happen this way?
Mt 26:55In that hour Jesus said to the crowds, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to arrest Me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize Me.
Mt 26:56But all this has happened in order that the writings of the prophets may be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left Him and fled.
Mt 26:57And those who seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered.
Mt 26:58And Peter followed Him at a distance to the courtyard of the high priest; and entering within, he sat with the attendants to see the end.
Mt 26:59Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking false testimony against Jesus so that they might put Him to death,
Mt 26:60And they did not find it, though many false witnesses came forward. But later two came
Mt 26:61And said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and build it up in three days.
Mt 26:62And the high priest stood up and said to Him, Do You answer nothing? What is it that these testify against You?
Mt 26:63But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to Him, I charge You to swear by the living God to tell us if You are the Christ, the Son of God.
Mt 26:64Jesus said to him, You have said rightly. Nevertheless I say to you, From now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.
Mt 26:65Then the high priest tore his garments, saying, He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, now you have heard the blasphemy.
Mt 26:66What do you think? And they answered and said, He is worthy of death.
Mt 26:67Then they spat in His face and beat Him with their fists, and others slapped Him,
Mt 26:68Saying, Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is the one who hit You?
Mt 26:69Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him and said, You also were with Jesus the Galilean.
Mt 26:70But he denied it before all, saying, I do not know what you are talking about!
Mt 26:71And after he had gone out to the porch, another girl saw him and said to those who were there, This man was with Jesus the Nazarene.
Mt 26:72And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man!
Mt 26:73And after a little while those who were standing there came to Peter and said, Surely you also are one of them, for your speech also makes it clear that you are.
Mt 26:74Then he began to curse and to swear: I do not know the man! And immediately a rooster crowed.
Mt 26:75And Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, Before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly.
Mt 27:1Now when morning had come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put Him to death.
Mt 27:2And having bound Him, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate the governor.
Mt 27:3Then Judas, who betrayed Him, seeing that He was condemned, regretted and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,
Mt 27:4Saying, I have sinned in betraying innocent blood. But they said, What is that to us? You see to that yourself!
Mt 27:5And he threw the pieces of silver into the temple and departed, and he went away and hanged himself.
Mt 27:6And the chief priests took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury, since it is blood money.
Mt 27:7And after taking counsel, they bought with it the potter’s field as a burial place for strangers.
Mt 27:8Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day.
Mt 27:9At that time what was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying, “And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of Him that had been priced, whom they of the sons of Israel had priced,
Mt 27:10And they gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord directed me.”
Mt 27:11And Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor questioned Him, saying, Are You the King of the Jews? And Jesus said, It is as you say.
Mt 27:12And while He was being accused by the chief priests and elders, He answered nothing.
Mt 27:13Then Pilate said to Him, Do You not hear how many things they testify against You?
Mt 27:14And He did not answer him, not even to one word, so that the governor marveled greatly.
Mt 27:15Now at the feasts the governor was accustomed to release to the crowd one prisoner whom they wanted.
Mt 27:16And they had at that time a notorious prisoner named Barabbas.
Mt 27:17Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ?
Mt 27:18For he knew that it was because of envy that they had delivered Him up.
Mt 27:19And while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much today in a dream because of Him.
Mt 27:20But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds to ask for Barabbas and to destroy Jesus.
Mt 27:21And the governor answered and said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? And they said, Barabbas.
Mt 27:22Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said, Let Him be crucified!
Mt 27:23But he said, Why, what evil has He done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let Him be crucified!
Mt 27:24And Pilate, seeing that nothing was gained but rather that an uproar was taking place, took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man’s blood. You see to it yourselves.
Mt 27:25And all the people answered and said, His blood be upon us and upon our children!
Mt 27:26Then he released to them Barabbas, but Jesus he scourged and delivered up to be crucified.
Mt 27:27Then the governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered about Him the whole cohort.
Mt 27:28And they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe around Him,
Mt 27:29And they wove a crown of thorns and placed it on His head and put a reed in His right hand; and they kneeled before Him and mocked Him, saying, Rejoice, King of the Jews!
Mt 27:30And they spat on Him and took the reed and beat Him on the head.
Mt 27:31And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the robe and put His garments on Him, and led Him away to crucify Him.
Mt 27:32And as they were going out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name; this one they compelled to take up His cross.
Mt 27:33And when they had come to a place called Golgotha, that is to say, Place of a Skull,
Mt 27:34They gave Him wine to drink, mingled with gall. And when He tasted it, He would not drink.
Mt 27:35And when they had crucified Him, they divided His garments among themselves, casting lots.
Mt 27:36And they sat down and guarded Him there.
Mt 27:37And they set in writing over His head the charge against Him: THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Mt 27:38At that time two robbers were crucified with Him, one on the right and one on the left.
Mt 27:39And those who were passing by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads
Mt 27:40And saying, You who destroy the temple and build it up in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross!
Mt 27:41Likewise also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked Him and said,
Mt 27:42He saved others; Himself He cannot save. He is King of Israel; let Him come down now from the cross, and we will believe on Him.
Mt 27:43He trusts in God; let Him rescue Him now if He wants Him, for He said, I am the Son of God.
Mt 27:44And in the same way the robbers who were crucified with Him also reproached Him.
Mt 27:45Now from the sixth hour darkness fell over all the land until the ninth hour.
Mt 27:46And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is, My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?
Mt 27:47And some of those standing there, when they heard this, said, This man is calling Elijah.
Mt 27:48And immediately one of them ran, and taking a sponge, he soaked it with vinegar and put it on a reed, and gave it to Him to drink.
Mt 27:49But the rest said, Let Him be. Let us see if Elijah is coming to save Him.
Mt 27:50And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up His spirit.
Mt 27:51And behold, the veil of the temple was split in two from top to bottom, and the earth was shaken and the rocks were split,
Mt 27:52And the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised.
Mt 27:53And they came out of the tombs after His resurrection and entered into the holy city and appeared to many.
Mt 27:54Now the centurion and those with him guarding Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that happened, became greatly frightened, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.
Mt 27:55And many women were there looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to Him,
Mt 27:56Among whom were Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
Mt 27:57And when evening fell, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus.
Mt 27:58This man came to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded that it be given to him.
Mt 27:59And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean, fine linen cloth.
Mt 27:60And he laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn in the rock. And having rolled a great stone in front of the door of the tomb, he went away.
Mt 27:61And Mary the Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the grave.
Mt 27:62On the next day, which is the day after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered unto Pilate,
Mt 27:63Saying, Sir, we have remembered that while He was still living, that deceiver said, After three days I will arise.
Mt 27:64Therefore, give orders for the grave to be secured until the third day, lest His disciples come and steal Him away and say to the people, He has been raised from the dead. And the last deception will be worse than the first.
Mt 27:65Pilate said to them, Take a guard. Go and make the tomb as secure as you know how.
Mt 27:66And they went and secured the grave, sealing the stone, with the guard being there.
Mt 28:1Now late on the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave.
Mt 28:2And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended out of heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it.
Mt 28:3And his appearance was like lightning, and his garment as white as snow.
Mt 28:4And for fear of him the guards shook and became like dead men.
Mt 28:5And the angel answered and said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are seeking Jesus, the crucified.
Mt 28:6He is not here, for He has been raised, even as He said. Come, see the place where He was lying.
Mt 28:7And go quickly and tell His disciples that He has been raised from the dead, and behold, He goes before you into Galilee. There you will see Him. Behold, I have told you.
Mt 28:8And they went away quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to report this to His disciples.
Mt 28:9And behold, Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice! And they came to Him and took hold of His feet and worshipped Him.
Mt 28:10Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and report to My brothers that they should go into Galilee, and there they will see Me.
Mt 28:11And as they were going, behold, some from the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened.
Mt 28:12And after the chief priests had gathered with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
Mt 28:13Saying, Say this, His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we slept.
Mt 28:14And if this comes to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him and make sure that you have nothing to worry about.
Mt 28:15And they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this account has been widely spread among the Jews until this very day.
Mt 28:16And the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus directed them.
Mt 28:17And when they saw Him, they worshipped Him, though some doubted.
Mt 28:18And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.
Mt 28:19Go therefore and disciple all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
Mt 28:20Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you all the days until the consummation of the age.
Mk 1:1The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
Mk 1:2Even as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: “Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way,
Mk 1:3A voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His paths.”
Mk 1:4John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins.
Mk 1:5And all the region of Judea went out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were baptized by him in the Jordan River, as they confessed their sins.
Mk 1:6And John was clothed in camel’s hair and had a leather girdle around his loins, and he ate locusts and wild honey.
Mk 1:7And he preached, saying, He who is stronger than I comes after me, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
Mk 1:8I have baptized you in water, but He Himself will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.
Mk 1:9And in those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized in the Jordan by John.
Mk 1:10And immediately, coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens being parted and the Spirit as a dove descending upon Him.
Mk 1:11And a voice came out of the heavens: You are My Son, the Beloved; in You I have found My delight.
Mk 1:12And immediately the Spirit thrust Him out into the wilderness.
Mk 1:13And He was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan; and He was with the wild animals, and the angels ministered to Him.
Mk 1:14And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God,
Mk 1:15And saying, The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent and believe in the gospel.
Mk 1:16And passing beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, Simon’s brother, casting a net in the sea, for they were fishermen.
Mk 1:17And Jesus said to them, Come after Me, and I will cause you to become fishers of men.
Mk 1:18And immediately leaving the nets, they followed Him.
Mk 1:19And going on a little, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who also were in their boat, mending the nets.
Mk 1:20And immediately He called them, and leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, they went after Him.
Mk 1:21And they went into Capernaum, and immediately, on the Sabbath, He entered into the synagogue and taught.
Mk 1:22And they were astounded at His teaching, for He taught them as One having authority and not like the scribes.
Mk 1:23And immediately, there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying,
Mk 1:24What have we to do with You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are — the Holy One of God.
Mk 1:25And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him!
Mk 1:26And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and shouting with a loud voice, came out of him.
Mk 1:27And they were all amazed, so that they discussed among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching! With authority He orders even the unclean spirits, and they obey Him.
Mk 1:28And immediately the report concerning Him went out everywhere into all the surrounding region of Galilee.
Mk 1:29And immediately, going out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John.
Mk 1:30And Simon’s mother-in-law was lying down with a fever, and immediately they told Him about her.
Mk 1:31And He came to her and raised her up, holding her hand, and the fever left her, and she served them.
Mk 1:32And when evening fell and the sun had set, they brought to Him all those who were ill and those who were demon-possessed.
Mk 1:33And the whole city was gathered together at the door.
Mk 1:34And He healed many who were ill with various diseases, and He cast out many demons and did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew Him.
Mk 1:35And rising very early in the morning, while it was still night, He went out and went away to a deserted place, and there He prayed.
Mk 1:36And Simon and those with him hunted for Him,
Mk 1:37And they found Him and said to Him, All are seeking You.
Mk 1:38And He said to them, Let us go elsewhere into the nearby towns that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I came out.
Mk 1:39And He went preaching in their synagogues in the whole of Galilee and casting out the demons.
Mk 1:40And a leper came to Him, entreating Him and falling on his knees and saying to Him, If You are willing, You can cleanse me.
Mk 1:41And He was moved with compassion, and stretching out His hand, He touched him and said to him, I am willing; be cleansed!
Mk 1:42And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was cleansed.
Mk 1:43And sternly charging him, immediately He thrust him out,
Mk 1:44And said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
Mk 1:45But he went out and began to proclaim it much and to spread the matter abroad, so that He could no longer enter openly into a city, but He stayed outside in deserted places. And they came to Him from everywhere.
Mk 2:1And He entered again into Capernaum after a few days, and it was heard that He was at home.
Mk 2:2And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room, not even at the door. And He spoke to them the word.
Mk 2:3And they came, bringing to Him a paralytic carried by four men.
Mk 2:4And being unable to bring him to Him because of the crowd, they removed the roof where He was. And when they had dug through, they lowered the mat on which the paralytic was lying.
Mk 2:5And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Child, your sins are forgiven.
Mk 2:6But some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts,
Mk 2:7Why is this man speaking this way? He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins except One, God?
Mk 2:8And immediately Jesus, knowing fully in His spirit that they were reasoning this way within themselves, said to them, Why are you reasoning about these things in your hearts?
Mk 2:9Which is easier: to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise and take up your mat and walk?
Mk 2:10But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins on earth — He said to the paralytic,
Mk 2:11To you I say, Rise, take up your mat and go to your house.
Mk 2:12And he rose and immediately took up the mat and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We have never seen anything like this!
Mk 2:13And He went out again beside the sea. And all the crowd came to Him, and He taught them.
Mk 2:14And as He passed by, He saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax office, and He said to him, Follow Me. And he rose and followed Him.
Mk 2:15And as He reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining together with Jesus and His disciples, for there were many, and they were following Him.
Mk 2:16And the scribes of the Pharisees, seeing that He ate with sinners and tax collectors, said to His disciples, Why does He eat with tax collectors and sinners?
Mk 2:17And when Jesus heard this, He said to them, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those who are ill; I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
Mk 2:18And the disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting. And they came and said to Him, Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?
Mk 2:19And Jesus said to them, The sons of the bridechamber cannot fast while the bridegroom is with them, can they? For as long a time as they have the bridegroom with them they cannot fast.
Mk 2:20But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.
Mk 2:21No one sews a patch of unfulled cloth on an old garment; otherwise, that which fills it up pulls away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
Mk 2:22And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the wine will burst the wineskins, and the wine is ruined as well as the wineskins; but new wine is put into fresh wineskins.
Mk 2:23And He passed through the grainfields on the Sabbath, and His disciples began to go along, picking the ears of grain.
Mk 2:24And the Pharisees said to Him, Look! Why are they doing on the Sabbath what is not lawful?
Mk 2:25And He said to them, Have you never read what David did when he had need and became hungry, he and those with him;
Mk 2:26How he entered into the house of God during the time of Abiathar the high priest and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except the priests, and he gave also to those who were with him?
Mk 2:27And He said to them, The Sabbath came into being for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
Mk 2:28So then the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.
Mk 3:1And He entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had a withered hand.
Mk 3:2And they were watching Him closely to see if He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse Him.
Mk 3:3And He said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise and stand in the midst.
Mk 3:4And He said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they remained silent.
Mk 3:5And looking around at them with anger and being greatly grieved with the hardness of their heart, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored.
Mk 3:6And the Pharisees went out and immediately took counsel with the Herodians against Him as to how they might destroy Him.
Mk 3:7And Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judea
Mk 3:8And from Jerusalem and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan and around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what things He did, came to Him.
Mk 3:9And He told His disciples to have a little boat ready near Him because of the crowd, so that they would not throng Him;
Mk 3:10For He healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed toward Him to touch Him.
Mk 3:11And the unclean spirits, when they beheld Him, fell before Him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God!
Mk 3:12And He charged them many times not to make Him known.
Mk 3:13And He went up to the mountain and called to Him those whom He Himself wanted, and they went to Him.
Mk 3:14And He appointed twelve, whom He also named apostles, so that they might be with Him and that He might send them to preach
Mk 3:15And to have the authority to cast out the demons.
Mk 3:16And He appointed the twelve: and to Simon He gave the name Peter;
Mk 3:17And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and He gave them the name, Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder;
Mk 3:18And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean,
Mk 3:19And Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
Mk 3:20And He came into a house, and again a crowd came together, so that they could not even eat bread.
Mk 3:21And when His relatives heard about it, they went out to lay hold of Him, for they said, He is beside Himself.
Mk 3:22And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has Beelzebul, and by the ruler of the demons He casts out the demons.
Mk 3:23And He called them to Himself and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
Mk 3:24And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom is not able to stand;
Mk 3:25And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand;
Mk 3:26And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he is not able to stand but has come to an end.
Mk 3:27But no one can enter into the house of the strong man and thoroughly plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will thoroughly plunder his house.
Mk 3:28Truly I say to you that all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they blaspheme,
Mk 3:29But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit has no forgiveness forever, but is guilty of an everlasting sin.
Mk 3:30He said this because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
Mk 3:31And His mother and His brothers came, and standing outside, they sent word to Him and called Him.
Mk 3:32And a crowd sat around Him, and they said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers and Your sisters are outside seeking You.
Mk 3:33And He answered them and said, Who is My mother and My brothers?
Mk 3:34And looking around at those sitting in a circle around Him, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers!
Mk 3:35For whoever does the will of God, this one is My brother and sister and mother.
Mk 4:1And again He began to teach beside the sea, and a very great crowd was gathered unto Him, so that He stepped into a boat in the sea and sat down, and all the crowd was on the land, facing the sea.
Mk 4:2And He taught them many things in parables and said to them in His teaching:
Mk 4:3Listen! Behold, the sower went out to sow.
Mk 4:4And as he sowed, some seed fell beside the way, and the birds came and devoured it.
Mk 4:5And other seed fell on the rocky place, where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth.
Mk 4:6And when the sun rose, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered.
Mk 4:7And other seed fell into the thorns, and the thorns came up and utterly choked it, and it yielded no fruit.
Mk 4:8And others fell into the good earth and yielded fruit, coming up and growing; and one bore thirtyfold, and one sixtyfold, and one a hundredfold.
Mk 4:9And He said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mk 4:10And when He was alone, those around Him, with the twelve, asked Him about the parables.
Mk 4:11And He said to them, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those outside, all things are in parables,
Mk 4:12In order that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they turn and it be forgiven them.
Mk 4:13And He said to them, Do you not know this parable? And how will you know all the parables?
Mk 4:14The sower sows the word.
Mk 4:15And these are the ones beside the way, where the word is sown; and when they hear, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word which has been sown into them.
Mk 4:16And likewise, these are the ones being sown on the rocky places, who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy.
Mk 4:17Yet they have no root in themselves, but last only for a time; then when affliction or persecution occurs because of the word, immediately they are stumbled.
Mk 4:18And others are the ones being sown into the thorns; these are the ones who have heard the word,
Mk 4:19And the anxieties of the age and the deceitfulness of riches and the lusts for other things enter in and utterly choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
Mk 4:20And these are the ones sown on the good earth: those who hear the word and receive it and bear fruit, one thirtyfold, and one sixtyfold, and one a hundredfold.
Mk 4:21And He said to them, Does the lamp come so that it may be placed under the bushel or under the bed? Does it not come that it may be placed on the lampstand?
Mk 4:22For nothing is hidden except that it may be manifested, nor has anything become concealed but that it may come into the open.
Mk 4:23If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mk 4:24And He said to them, Take heed what you hear. With what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you, and it shall be added to you.
Mk 4:25For he who has, it shall be given to him; and he who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him.
Mk 4:26And He said, So is the kingdom of God: as if a man cast seed on the earth,
Mk 4:27And sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and lengthens — how, he does not know.
Mk 4:28The earth bears fruit by itself: first a blade, then an ear, then full grain in the ear.
Mk 4:29But when the fruit is ripe, immediately he sends forth the sickle, because the harvest has come.
Mk 4:30And He said, How shall we liken the kingdom of God, or in what parable shall we present it?
Mk 4:31It is like a mustard seed, which, when it is sown on the earth, is smaller than all the seeds on the earth.
Mk 4:32And when it is sown, it comes up and becomes greater than all the herbs and produces great branches, so that the birds of heaven can roost under its shade.
Mk 4:33And in many such parables He spoke the word to them as they were able to hear;
Mk 4:34And without a parable He did not speak to them; but privately to His own disciples He explained all things.
Mk 4:35And He said to them on that day when evening had fallen, Let us go over to the other side.
Mk 4:36And leaving the crowd, they took Him along, just as He was, in the boat; and other boats were with Him.
Mk 4:37And there arose a great windstorm, and the waves beat into the boat, so that the boat was already beginning to fill up.
Mk 4:38And He was in the stern, sleeping on the cushion. And they woke Him and said to Him, Teacher, does it not matter to You that we are perishing?
Mk 4:39And having awoken, He rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Be silent! Be still! And the wind ceased and there was a great calm.
Mk 4:40And He said to them, Why are you cowardly in this way? How is it that you do not have faith?
Mk 4:41And they became greatly frightened and said to one another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?
Mk 5:1And they came to the other side of the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes.
Mk 5:2And when He came out of the boat, immediately, from out of the tombs, a man with an unclean spirit met Him,
Mk 5:3Who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no one could bind him any longer, not even with a chain,
Mk 5:4Because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him, and the shackles smashed, and no one was strong enough to subdue him.
Mk 5:5And continually night and day, among the tombs and in the mountains, he cried out and gashed himself with stones.
Mk 5:6And when he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and worshipped Him,
Mk 5:7And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure You by God, do not torment me!
Mk 5:8For He had said to him, Come out of the man, unclean spirit.
Mk 5:9And He questioned him, What is your name? And he said to Him, Legion is my name, because we are many.
Mk 5:10And he entreated Him much not to send them out of the region.
Mk 5:11Now there on the mountainside was a great herd of hogs feeding.
Mk 5:12And they entreated Him, saying, Send us to the hogs, so that we may enter into them.
Mk 5:13And He gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out and entered into the hogs, and the herd, about two thousand, rushed down the steep slope into the sea, and they were drowned in the sea.
Mk 5:14And those who were feeding them fled and reported it in the city and in the countryside. And they came to see what had happened.
Mk 5:15And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man sitting down, clothed, and sane, the man who had had the legion, and they became frightened.
Mk 5:16And those who had seen it related to them how it had happened to the demon-possessed man and concerning the hogs.
Mk 5:17And they began to entreat Him to depart from their borders.
Mk 5:18And as He got into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed begged Him that he might stay with Him.
Mk 5:19And He did not allow him, but said to him, Go to your house, to your own people, and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He has had mercy on you.
Mk 5:20And he departed and began to proclaim in Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him, and all marveled.
Mk 5:21And when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered to Him, and He was beside the sea.
Mk 5:22And one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name, and seeing Him, fell at His feet;
Mk 5:23And he entreated Him much, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come and lay Your hands on her that she may be healed and live.
Mk 5:24And He went with him, and a great crowd followed Him and pressed upon Him.
Mk 5:25And a woman was there, who had a flow of blood for twelve years.
Mk 5:26She had suffered much under many physicians and had spent everything she had and had not benefited at all, but rather became worse.
Mk 5:27When she heard the things concerning Jesus, she came up in the crowd behind Him and touched His garment,
Mk 5:28For she said, If I touch even His garments, I will be healed.
Mk 5:29And immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she was cured of the affliction.
Mk 5:30And immediately Jesus, realizing in Himself that power had gone out of Him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched My garments?
Mk 5:31And His disciples said to Him, You see the crowd pressing upon You and You say, Who touched Me?
Mk 5:32And He looked around to see her who had done this.
Mk 5:33But the woman, frightened and trembling, knew what had happened to her, and she came and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth.
Mk 5:34And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be well from your affliction.
Mk 5:35While He was still speaking, some came from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, saying, Your daughter has died. Why bother the Teacher any longer?
Mk 5:36But Jesus, overhearing the word spoken, said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not be afraid — only believe.
Mk 5:37And He did not allow anyone to accompany Him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
Mk 5:38And they came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and He saw a commotion and people weeping and wailing greatly.
Mk 5:39And He entered in and said to them, Why do you make a commotion and weep? The child has not died but is sleeping.
Mk 5:40And they laughed scornfully at Him. But He, putting them all out, took the father of the child and the mother and those with Him and went in to where the child was.
Mk 5:41And He took hold of the child’s hand and said to her, Talitha koum! which being interpreted is, Little girl, to you I say, Arise!
Mk 5:42And immediately the little girl rose up and walked about, for she was twelve years old. And immediately, they were amazed with great amazement.
Mk 5:43And He strongly commanded them that no one should know about this, and told them to give her something to eat.
Mk 6:1And He went out from there and came into His own country, and His disciples followed Him.
Mk 6:2And when the Sabbath had come, He began to teach in the synagogue; and many hearing were astounded, saying, Where did this man get these things? And what is this wisdom given to this man, and how is it that such works of power take place through His hands?
Mk 6:3Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not His sisters here with us? And they were stumbled because of Him.
Mk 6:4And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and among his own relatives and in his own house.
Mk 6:5And He could not do any work of power there, except to lay His hands upon a few of the sick and heal them.
Mk 6:6And He marveled because of their unbelief; and He went around the villages in a circuit, teaching.
Mk 6:7And He called the twelve to Him and began to send them out two by two and gave them authority over the unclean spirits;
Mk 6:8And He charged them not to take anything for the journey except only a staff: no bread, no bag, no money in their belt;
Mk 6:9But to have sandals tied on; and said, Do not put on two tunics.
Mk 6:10And He said to them, Wherever you enter into a house, there remain until you depart from that place.
Mk 6:11And whatever place does not receive you nor hear you, as you go out from there, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them.
Mk 6:12And they went forth and proclaimed that men should repent,
Mk 6:13And they cast out many demons and anointed many of the sick with oil and healed them.
Mk 6:14And King Herod heard of it, for His name had become known, and they said, John the baptizer has been raised from the dead, and because of this these works of power are operating through him.
Mk 6:15But others said, He is Elijah; and others said, He is a prophet, like one of the prophets.
Mk 6:16But Herod, hearing of it, said, He whom I beheaded, John, this one was raised!
Mk 6:17For Herod himself had sent men and seized John and bound him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother, because he had married her.
Mk 6:18For John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have the wife of your brother.
Mk 6:19Thus, Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to kill him and could not,
Mk 6:20For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And when he heard him, he was very perplexed yet heard him gladly.
Mk 6:21And an opportune day came, when Herod on his birthday made a banquet for his courtiers and the commanders and the leading men of Galilee.
Mk 6:22And when the daughter of Herodias herself entered and danced, she pleased Herod and those reclining at table with him. The king said to the girl, Ask of me whatever you want, and I will give it to you.
Mk 6:23And he swore to her earnestly, Whatever you ask of me, I will give to you, up to half of my kingdom.
Mk 6:24And she went out and said to her mother, What should I ask for? And she said, The head of John the baptizer.
Mk 6:25And coming in immediately with haste to the king, she asked, saying, I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
Mk 6:26And the king was very grieved, yet because of the oaths and those reclining at table, he did not want to refuse her.
Mk 6:27And immediately the king sent a guard and ordered him to bring his head. And he went out and beheaded him in the prison,
Mk 6:28And brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
Mk 6:29And when his disciples heard about it, they came and took his corpse and put it in a tomb.
Mk 6:30And the apostles gathered together to Jesus and reported to Him all that they did and all that they taught.
Mk 6:31And He said to them, Come by yourselves privately to a deserted place and rest a while. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have opportunity to eat.
Mk 6:32And they went away in the boat to a deserted place privately.
Mk 6:33And many saw them going away and recognized them, and they ran together there on foot from all the cities and got there before them.
Mk 6:34And getting out, He saw a great crowd, and He was moved with compassion for them because they were like sheep not having a shepherd, and He began to teach them many things.
Mk 6:35And when the hour had already become late, His disciples came to Him and said, This place is deserted, and the hour is already late;
Mk 6:36Send them away so that they may go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy for themselves something to eat.
Mk 6:37But He answered and said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said to Him, Shall we go away and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?
Mk 6:38And He said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they found out, they said, Five, and two fish.
Mk 6:39And He ordered them to have all recline by companies on the green grass.
Mk 6:40And they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
Mk 6:41And He took the five loaves and the two fish and, looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before them; and the two fish He divided among all.
Mk 6:42And they all ate and were satisfied.
Mk 6:43And they took up twelve full handbaskets of the broken pieces of bread and of the fish.
Mk 6:44And those who had eaten the loaves were five thousand men.
Mk 6:45And immediately He compelled His disciples to step into the boat and go before to the other side, toward Bethsaida, while He sent the crowd away.
Mk 6:46And after He said farewell to them, He went away to the mountain to pray.
Mk 6:47And when evening fell, the boat was in the midst of the sea and He was alone on the land.
Mk 6:48And seeing them distressed as they rowed, for the wind was contrary to them, He came toward them about the fourth watch of the night, walking on the sea, and He intended to pass by them.
Mk 6:49But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they thought that it was a ghost, and they cried out,
Mk 6:50For they all saw Him and were startled. But immediately He spoke with them and said to them, Take courage. It is I. Do not be afraid.
Mk 6:51And He went up unto them into the boat, and the wind ceased. And they were greatly astonished in themselves beyond measure,
Mk 6:52For they did not understand concerning the loaves, but rather their heart was hardened.
Mk 6:53And they crossed over to the land and came to Gennesaret and moored there.
Mk 6:54And when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Him,
Mk 6:55And they ran about that whole region and began to carry around on mats those who were ill to any place where they heard that He was.
Mk 6:56And wherever He entered into villages or into cities or into the countryside, they laid those who were sick in the marketplaces and begged Him that they might touch if even the fringe of His garment; and as many as touched Him were healed.
Mk 7:1And the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together to Him when they had come from Jerusalem
Mk 7:2And had seen that some of His disciples ate bread with common hands, that is, unwashed.
Mk 7:3(For the Pharisees and all the Jews, unless they carefully wash their hands, do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders;
Mk 7:4And when they come from the marketplace, unless they wash themselves, they do not eat. And there are many other things which they have received to hold, the dipping of cups and pitchers and copper vessels.)
Mk 7:5And the Pharisees and the scribes questioned Him, Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with common hands?
Mk 7:6And He said to them, Well has Isaiah prophesied concerning you hypocrites, as it is written, “This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart stays far away from Me;
Mk 7:7But in vain do they worship Me, teaching as teachings the commandments of men.”
Mk 7:8While leaving the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men.
Mk 7:9And He said to them, You nicely set aside the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition.
Mk 7:10For Moses said, “Honor your father and your mother,” and, “He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.”
Mk 7:11But you say: If a man says to his father or his mother, Whatever you would have been profited by me is now corban (that is, a gift to God),
Mk 7:12Allow him to no longer do anything for his father or his mother.
Mk 7:13Thus you deprive the word of God of its authority by your tradition which you have handed down. And many things similar to these you do.
Mk 7:14And He called the crowd to Him again and said to them, Hear Me, all of you, and understand.
Mk 7:15There is nothing outside of a man which entering into him can defile him, but the things coming out of a man are the things which defile a man.
Mk 7:16If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
Mk 7:17And when He entered into a house from the crowd, His disciples questioned Him concerning the parable.
Mk 7:18And He said to them, Are you also in the same manner without understanding? Do you not understand that everything that enters from outside into a man is not able to defile him,
Mk 7:19Because it does not enter into his heart, but into the stomach, and goes out into the drain? (In saying this, He made all foods clean.)
Mk 7:20And He said, That which goes out of the man, that defiles the man.
Mk 7:21For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil reasonings, fornications, thefts, murders,
Mk 7:22Adulteries, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, licentiousness, envy, blasphemy, arrogance, foolishness.
Mk 7:23All these wicked things proceed from within and defile the man.
Mk 7:24And He rose up from there and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into a house, He wanted no one to know about it; yet He could not escape notice.
Mk 7:25But a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard about Him, and immediately she came and fell at His feet.
Mk 7:26Now the woman was a Greek, Syrophoenician by race. And she asked Him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
Mk 7:27And He said to her, First let the children be satisfied, for it is not good to take the children’s bread and throw it to the little dogs.
Mk 7:28And she answered and said to Him, Yes, Lord, but even the little dogs under the table eat of the little children’s crumbs.
Mk 7:29And He said to her, Because of this word, go. The demon has gone out of your daughter.
Mk 7:30And she went away to her house and found the little child lying on the couch and the demon gone out.
Mk 7:31And again He came out of the borders of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
Mk 7:32And they brought to Him one who was deaf and who spoke with difficulty, and they entreated Him to lay His hand on him.
Mk 7:33And He took him aside from the crowd privately and put His fingers into his ears, and He spat and touched his tongue.
Mk 7:34And looking up to heaven, He groaned and said to him, Ephphatha! that is, Be opened!
Mk 7:35And immediately his ears were opened, and the bond on his tongue was released and he spoke clearly.
Mk 7:36And He charged them not to tell anyone. But the more He charged them, so much the more they proclaimed it.
Mk 7:37And they were utterly astounded, saying, He has done all things well; He makes both the deaf hear and the dumb speak.
Mk 8:1In those days, since there was again a great crowd and they did not have anything to eat, He called the disciples to Him and said to them,
Mk 8:2I am moved with compassion for the crowd, because for three days now they have remained with Me and they do not have anything to eat.
Mk 8:3And if I send them away to their home hungry, they will faint on the way; and some of them have come from a distance.
Mk 8:4And His disciples answered Him, Where will anyone be able to get enough to satisfy these people with bread here in this desolate place?
Mk 8:5And He asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven.
Mk 8:6And He charged the crowd to recline on the ground. And taking the seven loaves, He gave thanks and broke them, and gave them to His disciples to set before them, and they set them before the crowd.
Mk 8:7And they had a few small fish, and having blessed them, He said that these also should be set before them.
Mk 8:8And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up the surplus of broken pieces, seven baskets.
Mk 8:9And there were about four thousand people. And He sent them away.
Mk 8:10And immediately He got into the boat with His disciples and came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
Mk 8:11And the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven and tempting Him.
Mk 8:12And He groaned deeply in His spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I tell you, No sign shall be given to this generation.
Mk 8:13And leaving them, He again got into a boat and went away to the other side.
Mk 8:14And they forgot to take bread, and except for one loaf, they did not have any with them in the boat.
Mk 8:15And He charged them, saying, Watch! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
Mk 8:16And they reasoned with one another, saying, It is because we do not have bread.
Mk 8:17And Jesus, knowing it, said to them, Why are you reasoning because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Do you have your heart hardened?
Mk 8:18Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember?
Mk 8:19When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many handbaskets full of broken pieces did you take up? They said to Him, Twelve.
Mk 8:20And when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets filled with broken pieces did you take up? And they said, Seven.
Mk 8:21And He said to them, Do you not yet understand?
Mk 8:22And they came to Bethsaida. And they brought to Him a blind man and entreated Him to touch him.
Mk 8:23And He took hold of the hand of the blind man and led him forth outside the village. And He spat on his eyes and laid His hands on him and asked him, Do you see anything?
Mk 8:24And he looked up and said, I see men, for I see them as trees, walking.
Mk 8:25Then again He laid His hands upon his eyes, and the man looked intently and was restored, and he began to see all things clearly.
Mk 8:26And He sent him to his house, saying, Do not even enter into the village.
Mk 8:27And Jesus and His disciples went out into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way He questioned His disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am?
Mk 8:28And they told Him, saying, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; but others, one of the prophets.
Mk 8:29And He questioned them, But you, who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to Him, You are the Christ!
Mk 8:30And He charged them not to tell anyone concerning Him.
Mk 8:31And He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and after three days rise.
Mk 8:32And He spoke this word openly. And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him.
Mk 8:33But turning around and looking at His disciples, He rebuked Peter and said, Get behind Me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of men.
Mk 8:34And He called the crowd to Him with His disciples and said to them, If anyone wants to follow after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
Mk 8:35For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever will lose his soul-life for My sake and the gospel’s shall save it.
Mk 8:36For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul-life?
Mk 8:37For what could a man give in exchange for his soul-life?
Mk 8:38For whoever is ashamed of Me and of My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man also will be ashamed of him when He comes in the glory of His Father with the holy angels.
Mk 9:1And He said to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the kingdom of God having come in power.
Mk 9:2And after six days Jesus took with Him Peter and James and John, and brought them up alone into a high mountain privately. And He was transfigured before them,
Mk 9:3And His garments became sparkling, exceedingly white, such as no fuller on earth could whiten them.
Mk 9:4And Elijah with Moses appeared to them, and they were conversing with Jesus.
Mk 9:5And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah.
Mk 9:6For he did not know what to answer, for they had become extremely frightened.
Mk 9:7And a cloud appeared, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud: This is My Son, the Beloved. Hear Him!
Mk 9:8And suddenly, when they looked around, they no longer saw anyone, but Jesus only with them.
Mk 9:9And as they were coming down from the mountain, He ordered them not to relate to anyone the things which they had seen, except when the Son of Man has risen from the dead.
Mk 9:10And they kept the word, discussing among themselves what rising from the dead was.
Mk 9:11And they asked Him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
Mk 9:12And He said to them, Elijah does indeed come first and restore all things. And how is it that it is written of the Son of Man that He should suffer many things and be counted as nothing?
Mk 9:13But I tell you that Elijah has indeed come, and they did to him the things that they wished, even as it is written of him.
Mk 9:14And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and some scribes disputing with them.
Mk 9:15And immediately, when all the crowd saw Him, they were amazed, and they ran to Him and greeted Him.
Mk 9:16And He questioned them, What are you disputing with them?
Mk 9:17And one from the crowd answered Him, Teacher, I brought to You my son, who has a dumb spirit;
Mk 9:18And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth; and he is wasting away. And I told Your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able.
Mk 9:19And He answered them and said, O unbelieving generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to Me.
Mk 9:20And they brought him to Him. And when it saw Him, the spirit immediately convulsed him greatly, and falling on the earth, he rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
Mk 9:21And He questioned his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood.
Mk 9:22And it has often thrown him both into fire and into water to destroy him. But if You can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.
Mk 9:23And Jesus said to him, You say, If You can. All things are possible to him who believes.
Mk 9:24Immediately, crying out, the father of the child said, I believe; help my unbelief!
Mk 9:25And Jesus, seeing that a crowd was running together toward them, rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Dumb and deaf spirit, I order you, come out of him and enter into him no more.
Mk 9:26And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out. And he became as though he were dead so that many said that he died.
Mk 9:27But Jesus took hold of his hand and raised him, and he stood up.
Mk 9:28And when He entered into the house, His disciples questioned Him privately, Why were we not able to cast it out?
Mk 9:29And He said to them, This kind cannot come out by any means except prayer.
Mk 9:30And they went out from there and passed through Galilee, and He did not want anyone to know about it,
Mk 9:31For He was teaching His disciples. And He said to them, The Son of Man is being delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill Him; and when He has been killed, after three days He will rise.
Mk 9:32But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to question Him.
Mk 9:33And they came to Capernaum. And when He was in the house, He questioned them, What were you reasoning about on the way?
Mk 9:34And they were silent, for they had argued with one another on the way about who was greater.
Mk 9:35And He sat down and called the twelve and said to them, If anyone wants to be first, he shall be the last of all and the servant of all.
Mk 9:36And He took a little child and set him in their midst; and taking him into His arms, He said to them,
Mk 9:37Whoever receives one of such little children because of My name, receives Me; and whoever receives Me, receives not Me but Him who sent Me.
Mk 9:38John said to Him, Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow us.
Mk 9:39But Jesus said, Do not forbid him, for there is no one who will do a work of power in My name and be able soon to speak evil of Me.
Mk 9:40For he who is not against us is for us.
Mk 9:41For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you bear the name that you are Christ’s, truly I say to you that he shall by no means lose his reward.
Mk 9:42And whoever stumbles one of these little ones who believe into Me, it is better for him if a great millstone is placed around his neck and he is thrown into the sea.
Mk 9:43And if your hand stumbles you, cut it off; it is better for you to enter into life maimed than to have two hands and go away into Gehenna, into unquenchable fire.
Mk 9:44[Some MSS insert v. 44, Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.]
Mk 9:45And if your foot stumbles you, cut it off; it is better for you to enter into life lame than to have two feet and be thrown into Gehenna.
Mk 9:46[Some MSS insert v. 46, Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.]
Mk 9:47And if your eye stumbles you, cast it out; it is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into Gehenna,
Mk 9:48Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.
Mk 9:49For everyone shall be salted with fire.
Mk 9:50Salt is good, but if the salt becomes unsalty, with what will you restore its saltiness? Have salt in yourselves and be at peace with one another.
Mk 10:1And He rose up from there and came into the borders of Judea and beyond the Jordan; and again crowds came together to Him, and as He was accustomed, again He taught them.
Mk 10:2And some Pharisees came and asked Him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife, so as to tempt Him.
Mk 10:3And He answered and said to them, What did Moses command you?
Mk 10:4And they said, Moses allowed us to write a certificate of divorce and divorce her.
Mk 10:5And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart he wrote this commandment for you.
Mk 10:6But from the beginning of creation, He made them male and female.
Mk 10:7For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife;
Mk 10:8And the two shall be one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Mk 10:9Therefore what God has yoked together, let man not separate.
Mk 10:10And in the house the disciples questioned Him again concerning this.
Mk 10:11And He said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her.
Mk 10:12And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
Mk 10:13And they brought little children to Him so that He might touch them, but the disciples rebuked them.
Mk 10:14But Jesus, seeing it, was indignant and said to them, Allow the little children to come to Me. Do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
Mk 10:15Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child shall by no means enter into it.
Mk 10:16And taking them into His arms, He fervently blessed them, laying His hands on them.
Mk 10:17And as He went out into the road, someone ran to Him and kneeling before Him asked Him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
Mk 10:18And Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One — God.
Mk 10:19You know the commandments: “Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother.”
Mk 10:20And he said to Him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth.
Mk 10:21And Jesus, looking upon him, was moved with love for him and said to him, One thing you lack: go; the things you have, sell and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.
Mk 10:22And at the word his countenance fell, and he went away sorrowing, for he had many possessions.
Mk 10:23And Jesus, looking around, said to His disciples, How difficult it will be for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
Mk 10:24And the disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus again answered and said to them, Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
Mk 10:25It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Mk 10:26But they were astonished beyond measure and said among themselves, Then who can be saved?
Mk 10:27Looking upon them, Jesus said, With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God.
Mk 10:28Peter began to say to Him, Behold, we have left all and followed You.
Mk 10:29Jesus said, Truly I say to you, There is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for My sake and for the gospel’s sake,
Mk 10:30But that he shall receive a hundred times as much now at this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, with persecutions, and in the coming age, eternal life.
Mk 10:31But many first will be last, and the last first.
Mk 10:32Now they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus led the way before them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And He took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that were about to happen to Him:
Mk 10:33Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and to the scribes. And they will condemn Him to death and deliver Him to the Gentiles,
Mk 10:34And they will mock Him and spit at Him and scourge Him, and they will kill Him. And after three days He will rise.
Mk 10:35And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying to Him, Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask You.
Mk 10:36And He said to them, What do you want Me to do for you?
Mk 10:37And they said to Him, Grant to us to sit, one on Your right and one on Your left, in Your glory.
Mk 10:38But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?
Mk 10:39And they said to Him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup which I drink you shall drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you shall be baptized.
Mk 10:40But to sit on My right or on My left is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.
Mk 10:41And when the ten heard this, they began to be indignant concerning James and John.
Mk 10:42And Jesus called them to Him and said to them, You know that those who are esteemed as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Mk 10:43But it is not so among you; but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant,
Mk 10:44And whoever wants to be first among you shall be the slave of all.
Mk 10:45For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
Mk 10:46And they came to Jericho. And as He was going out from Jericho, as well as His disciples and a large crowd, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, sat by the road.
Mk 10:47And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
Mk 10:48And many rebuked him so that he would be silent, but he cried out much more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
Mk 10:49And Jesus, standing still, said, Call him here. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take courage. Rise. He is calling you.
Mk 10:50And throwing his garment aside, he leaped up and came to Jesus.
Mk 10:51And Jesus answered him and said, What do you want Me to do for you? And the blind man said to Him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight!
Mk 10:52And Jesus said to him, Go; your faith has healed you. And immediately he received his sight and followed Him on the road.
Mk 11:1And when they drew near to Jerusalem, at Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples,
Mk 11:2And said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately upon entering into it, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has yet sat; untie it and bring it.
Mk 11:3And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? say, The Lord has need of it and will immediately send it here again.
Mk 11:4And they went away and found a colt tied by a door, outside on the street, and they untied it.
Mk 11:5And some of the ones standing there said to them, What are you doing untying the colt?
Mk 11:6And they spoke to them even as Jesus had said. And they let them do it.
Mk 11:7And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their garments on it, and He sat on it.
Mk 11:8And many spread their garments in the road, and others spread layers of branches full of tender leaves, having cut them out of the fields.
Mk 11:9And those who went before and those who followed cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!
Mk 11:10Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the highest!
Mk 11:11And He entered into Jerusalem, into the temple; and when He had looked around at all things, since the hour was already late, He went out to Bethany with the twelve.
Mk 11:12And on the next day, when they had gone out from Bethany, He became hungry.
Mk 11:13And seeing at a distance a fig tree having leaves, He came to see if perhaps He would find anything on it. And when He came to it, He found nothing except leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
Mk 11:14And He answered and said to it, May no one eat fruit from you forever! And His disciples heard it.
Mk 11:15And they came to Jerusalem. And He entered into the temple and began to cast out those who were selling and those who were buying in the temple, and He overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling the doves;
Mk 11:16And He would not let anyone carry a vessel through the temple.
Mk 11:17And He taught and said to them, Is it not written, “My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations”? But you have made it a den of robbers.
Mk 11:18And the chief priests and the scribes heard this, and they sought how they might destroy Him, for they feared Him, for all the crowd was astounded at His teaching.
Mk 11:19And every day when evening fell, they went outside the city.
Mk 11:20And as they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots.
Mk 11:21And Peter remembered and said to Him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which You cursed has withered.
Mk 11:22And Jesus answered and said to them, Have faith in God.
Mk 11:23Truly I say to you that whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says happens, he will have it.
Mk 11:24For this reason I say to you, All things that you pray and ask, believe that you have received them, and you will have them.
Mk 11:25And when you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in the heavens may also forgive you your offenses.
Mk 11:26But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in the heavens forgive your offenses.
Mk 11:27And they came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him,
Mk 11:28And said to Him, By what authority do You do these things, or who gave You this authority to do these things?
Mk 11:29And Jesus said to them, I will question you about one thing; answer Me and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mk 11:30The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer Me.
Mk 11:31And they reasoned with one another saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say, Why then did you not believe him?
Mk 11:32But should we say, From men? — they feared the crowd, for all held that John was really a prophet.
Mk 11:33And they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mk 12:1And He began to speak to them in parables: A man planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it and dug a vat for a winepress and built a tower; and he leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad.
Mk 12:2And he sent a slave to the vinedressers at the proper time so that from the vinedressers he might take of the fruit of the vineyard.
Mk 12:3And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Mk 12:4And again he sent to them another slave; and that one they struck on the head and dishonored.
Mk 12:5And he sent another, and that one they killed; and so with many others, beating some and killing others.
Mk 12:6He had yet one, a beloved son; he sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son.
Mk 12:7But those vinedressers said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours!
Mk 12:8And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
Mk 12:9What then will the master of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.
Mk 12:10Have you not even read this Scripture, “The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner.
Mk 12:11This was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes”?
Mk 12:12And they sought to seize Him, yet they feared the crowd, for they perceived that it was with them in view that He spoke the parable. And leaving Him, they went away.
Mk 12:13And they sent to Him some of the Pharisees and Herodians that they might catch Him in His speech.
Mk 12:14And they came and said to Him, Teacher, we know that You are true and do not fear anyone, for You do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? Should we give, or should we not give?
Mk 12:15But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you tempt Me? Bring Me a denarius that I may look at it.
Mk 12:16And they brought one. And He said to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to Him, Caesar’s.
Mk 12:17And Jesus said to them, The things that are Caesar’s render to Caesar, and the things that are God’s to God. And they marveled greatly at Him.
Mk 12:18And some Sadducees came to Him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they questioned Him, saying,
Mk 12:19Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if anyone’s brother dies and leaves a wife behind and leaves no child, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed to his brother.
Mk 12:20There were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and when he died, he left no seed;
Mk 12:21And the second took her and died, leaving behind no seed; and the third similarly;
Mk 12:22And the seven left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
Mk 12:23In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.
Mk 12:24Jesus said to them, Is it not because of this that you err, that you do not know the Scriptures nor the power of God?
Mk 12:25For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in the heavens.
Mk 12:26But concerning the dead, that they are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the section concerning the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, “I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob”?
Mk 12:27He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You err greatly.
Mk 12:28And one of the scribes approached and heard them disputing; and perceiving that He answered them well, he questioned Him, Which is the first commandment of all?
Mk 12:29Jesus answered, The first is: “Hear, Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord;
Mk 12:30And you shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul and from your whole mind and from your whole strength.”
Mk 12:31The second is this: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” There is no other commandment greater than these.
Mk 12:32And the scribe said to Him, Well said, Teacher; in truth You have said that He is one and there is not another besides Him;
Mk 12:33And to love Him from the whole heart and from the whole understanding and from the whole strength and to love one’s neighbor as himself is much more than all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Mk 12:34And Jesus, seeing that he answered intelligently, said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to question Him anymore.
Mk 12:35And Jesus, while He was teaching in the temple, answered and said, How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
Mk 12:36David himself said in the Holy Spirit, “The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet.”
Mk 12:37David himself calls Him Lord, and how is He his son? And the great crowd heard Him gladly.
Mk 12:38And in His teaching He said, Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and like greetings in the marketplaces
Mk 12:39And chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at the dinners,
Mk 12:40Who devour the widows’ houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater judgment.
Mk 12:41And He sat down opposite the treasury and watched how the crowd cast money into the treasury. And many rich people cast in much.
Mk 12:42And one poor widow came and cast in two lepta, which is a quadrans.
Mk 12:43And He called His disciples to Him and said to them, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has cast in more than all those who were casting into the treasury,
Mk 12:44For they all cast in out of their surplus, but she, out of her lack, has cast in all that she had, her whole living.
Mk 13:1And as He was going out of the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, Teacher, behold, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!
Mk 13:2And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? There shall by no means be left here a stone upon a stone which shall not be thrown down.
Mk 13:3And as He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked Him privately,
Mk 13:4Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?
Mk 13:5And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one leads you astray.
Mk 13:6Many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ! and will lead many astray.
Mk 13:7And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; it must happen, but the end is not yet.
Mk 13:8For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in various places; there will be famines. These things are the beginning of birth pangs.
Mk 13:9But you, take heed to yourselves. They will deliver you to sanhedrins, and in the synagogues you will be beaten, and before governors and kings you will stand for My sake, for a testimony to them.
Mk 13:10Yet the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations.
Mk 13:11And when they lead you away and deliver you up, do not be anxious beforehand about what you should speak, but whatever is given to you in that hour, speak that; for it is not you who are speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
Mk 13:12And brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against their parents and put them to death.
Mk 13:13And you will be hated by all on account of My name. But he who has endured to the end, this one shall be saved.
Mk 13:14But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it should not (let him who reads understand), then let those in Judea flee to the mountains;
Mk 13:15And let him who is on the housetop not come down, nor enter in, to take anything out of his house;
Mk 13:16And let him who is in the field not turn back to take his garment.
Mk 13:17But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days.
Mk 13:18And pray that it may not happen in winter,
Mk 13:19For those days will be a time of tribulation such as has not occurred from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, nor shall by any means ever occur.
Mk 13:20And unless the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would be saved; but on account of the chosen, whom He chose, He shortened the days.
Mk 13:21And then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! Behold, there! do not believe it.
Mk 13:22For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, the chosen.
Mk 13:23But you, beware; I have told you all things beforehand.
Mk 13:24But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
Mk 13:25And the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
Mk 13:26And then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
Mk 13:27And then He will send the angels, and He will gather together His chosen from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of heaven.
Mk 13:28But learn the parable from the fig tree: as soon as its branch has become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that the summer is near.
Mk 13:29So also you, when you see these things happening, know that it is near, at the doors.
Mk 13:30Truly I say to you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all these things happen.
Mk 13:31Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
Mk 13:32But concerning that day or hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
Mk 13:33Beware, be alert; for you do not know when the time is.
Mk 13:34It is like a man who is about to go abroad, having left his house and given to his slaves authority, to each his work, and who commanded the doorkeeper to watch.
Mk 13:35Watch therefore, for you do not know when the Master of the house comes, whether in the evening or at midnight or at cockcrowing or in the morning;
Mk 13:36Lest He come suddenly and find you sleeping.
Mk 13:37And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch!
Mk 14:1Now the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were two days away. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking a way to seize Him by craftiness and kill Him,
Mk 14:2For they said, Not at the feast, lest there be a tumult by the people.
Mk 14:3And while He was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He reclined at table, a woman came, having an alabaster flask of ointment, of very costly pure nard, and she broke the alabaster flask and poured it over His head.
Mk 14:4But there were some who were indignantly commenting among themselves: Why has this waste of the ointment been made?
Mk 14:5For this ointment could have been sold for over three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they were infuriated with her.
Mk 14:6But Jesus said, Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a noble deed on Me.
Mk 14:7For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you do not always have Me.
Mk 14:8She has done what she could; she has anointed My body beforehand for the burial.
Mk 14:9And truly I say to you, Wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done shall also be told as a memorial of her.
Mk 14:10And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went off to the chief priests to deliver Him up to them.
Mk 14:11And when they heard this, they rejoiced and promised to give him money. And he sought a way to deliver Him up opportunely.
Mk 14:12And on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the passover, His disciples said to Him, Where do You want us to go and prepare so that You may eat the passover?
Mk 14:13And He sent two of His disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him;
Mk 14:14And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, The Teacher says, Where is My guest room, where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
Mk 14:15And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready. And there prepare for us.
Mk 14:16And the disciples went out and came into the city and found it even as He had told them, and they prepared the passover.
Mk 14:17And when evening fell, He came with the twelve.
Mk 14:18And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me, one who is eating with Me.
Mk 14:19They began to be grieved and to say to Him one by one, Surely not I?
Mk 14:20And He said to them, It will be one of the twelve, one who dips with Me in the dish.
Mk 14:21For the Son of Man is going away, even as it is written concerning Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born.
Mk 14:22And as they were eating, He took bread and blessed it, and He broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take; this is My body.
Mk 14:23And He took a cup and gave thanks, and He gave it to them; and they all drank of it.
Mk 14:24And He said to them, This is My blood of the covenant, which is being poured out for many.
Mk 14:25Truly I say to you, I shall by no means drink of the product of the vine anymore until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
Mk 14:26And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Mk 14:27And Jesus said to them, You will all be stumbled, because it is written, “I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.”
Mk 14:28But after I have been raised, I will go before you into Galilee.
Mk 14:29But Peter said to Him, Even if all will be stumbled, yet I will not!
Mk 14:30And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that today in this night, before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me three times.
Mk 14:31But he went on speaking more intensely, Even if I must die with You, I will by no means deny You! And they all said similarly.
Mk 14:32And they came to a place named Gethsemane, and He said to His disciples, Sit here while I pray.
Mk 14:33And He took Peter and James and John with Him and began to be awestruck and deeply distressed.
Mk 14:34And He said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch.
Mk 14:35And going forward a little, He fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour would pass from Him.
Mk 14:36And He said, Abba Father, all things are possible to You; remove this cup from Me; yet not what I will, but what You will.
Mk 14:37And He came and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Were you not able to watch for one hour?
Mk 14:38Watch and pray that you may not come into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Mk 14:39And going away again, He prayed, saying the same thing.
Mk 14:40And coming again, He found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy. And they did not know what to answer Him.
Mk 14:41And He came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come; behold, the Son of Man is being delivered up into the hands of sinners.
Mk 14:42Arise, let us be going. Behold, the one betraying Me has drawn near.
Mk 14:43And immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, appeared, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Mk 14:44Now the one who was betraying Him had given them a signal, saying, Whomever I kiss, He is the one. Seize Him and lead Him away securely.
Mk 14:45And when he came, he immediately approached Him and said, Rabbi! and kissed Him affectionately.
Mk 14:46And they laid hands on Him and seized Him.
Mk 14:47But a certain one of those standing by drew his sword and struck the slave of the high priest, and took off his ear.
Mk 14:48And Jesus answered and said to them, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to arrest Me?
Mk 14:49Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching and you did not seize Me. But may the Scriptures be fulfilled.
Mk 14:50And they all left Him and fled.
Mk 14:51And a certain young man was accompanying Him, clothed with a linen cloth over his naked body; and they seized him.
Mk 14:52But he left the linen cloth behind and fled naked.
Mk 14:53And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together.
Mk 14:54And Peter followed Him at a distance until he was within the courtyard of the high priest. And he was there sitting with the attendants and warming himself in the light of the fire.
Mk 14:55Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking testimony against Jesus in order to put Him to death, and they could not find it.
Mk 14:56For many gave false testimony against Him, yet the testimonies were not consistent.
Mk 14:57And some stood up and testified falsely against Him, saying,
Mk 14:58We heard Him say, I will destroy this temple made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.
Mk 14:59And neither in this regard was their testimony consistent.
Mk 14:60And the high priest stood up in the midst and questioned Jesus, saying, Do You not answer anything? What is this that these testify against You?
Mk 14:61But He was silent and did not answer anything. Again the high priest questioned Him and said to Him, Are You the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
Mk 14:62And Jesus said, I am. And you shall see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.
Mk 14:63And the high priest, tearing his garments, said, What further need do we have of witnesses?
Mk 14:64You heard the blasphemy! How does it appear to you? And they all condemned Him as being worthy of death.
Mk 14:65And some began to spit at Him and to blindfold His face and to beat Him with their fists and to say to Him, Prophesy! And the attendants, slapping Him about, took Him.
Mk 14:66And while Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
Mk 14:67And seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.
Mk 14:68But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you are talking about. And he went outside into the forecourt, and a rooster crowed.
Mk 14:69And the servant girl, seeing him, began again to say to those standing by, This man is one of them!
Mk 14:70But again he denied it. And after a little while, those standing by again said to Peter, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean as well.
Mk 14:71But he began to curse and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak!
Mk 14:72And immediately a rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered the word, how Jesus had said to him, Before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me three times. And thinking upon it, he wept.
Mk 15:1And immediately in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole Sanhedrin, and having bound Jesus, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate.
Mk 15:2And Pilate questioned Him, Are You the King of the Jews? And answering him, He said, It is as you say.
Mk 15:3And the chief priests accused Him of many things.
Mk 15:4And Pilate again questioned Him, saying, Do You answer nothing? See how many things they are accusing You of.
Mk 15:5But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate marveled.
Mk 15:6Now at the feasts he released to them one prisoner whom they requested.
Mk 15:7And there was one named Barabbas, bound with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the insurrection.
Mk 15:8And the crowd came up and began to ask him to do even as he had been accustomed to do for them.
Mk 15:9But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Mk 15:10For he knew that it was because of envy that the chief priests had delivered Him up.
Mk 15:11But the chief priests stirred up the crowd that instead he should release Barabbas to them.
Mk 15:12And Pilate again answered and said to them, What then do you want me to do with Him whom you call the King of the Jews?
Mk 15:13And again they cried out, Crucify Him!
Mk 15:14But Pilate said to them, Why, what evil has He done? But they cried out the more, Crucify Him!
Mk 15:15And Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released to them Barabbas and scourged Jesus and delivered Him up to be crucified.
Mk 15:16And the soldiers led Him away within the courtyard, that is, the praetorium, and called together the whole cohort.
Mk 15:17And they clothed Him in purple and wove a thorny crown and put it around His head.
Mk 15:18And they began to salute Him: Rejoice, King of the Jews!
Mk 15:19And they beat His head with a reed and spat at Him. And kneeling down, they bowed before Him.
Mk 15:20And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the purple and put His garments on Him. And they led Him out to crucify Him.
Mk 15:21And they compelled a certain passerby coming from the country, Simon a Cyrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to take up His cross.
Mk 15:22And they brought Him to the place Golgotha, which is interpreted, the Place of a Skull.
Mk 15:23And they tried to give Him wine mixed with myrrh, but He did not take it.
Mk 15:24And they crucified Him and divided His garments, casting lots for them to see what each should take.
Mk 15:25Now it was the third hour and they crucified Him.
Mk 15:26And there was an inscription of the charge against Him inscribed: THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Mk 15:27And with Him they crucified two robbers, one on His right and one on His left.
Mk 15:28And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And He was counted with the lawless.”
Mk 15:29And those who were passing by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days,
Mk 15:30Save Yourself and come down from the cross!
Mk 15:31Likewise also the chief priests with the scribes mocked Him with one another and said, He saved others; Himself He cannot save.
Mk 15:32Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Those who were crucified with Him also reproached Him.
Mk 15:33And when the sixth hour came, darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour.
Mk 15:34And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is interpreted, My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?
Mk 15:35And some of those standing by heard this and said, Behold, He is calling for Elijah.
Mk 15:36And someone ran and filled a sponge with vinegar, and putting it on a reed, gave it to Him to drink, saying, Let Him be. Let us see if Elijah is coming to take Him down.
Mk 15:37And Jesus let out a loud cry and expired.
Mk 15:38And the veil of the temple was split in two from top to bottom.
Mk 15:39And the centurion standing by opposite Him, seeing that He expired in this way, said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
Mk 15:40And there were also some women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of the younger James and of Joses, and Salome,
Mk 15:41Who, when He was in Galilee, followed Him and ministered to Him, as well as many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem.
Mk 15:42And when evening had fallen, since it was the day of preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
Mk 15:43Joseph, the honorable member of the Council, from Arimathea, who was also himself awaiting the kingdom of God, came; and gathering courage, he went in to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Mk 15:44And Pilate marveled that He had already died, and calling to him the centurion, he questioned him whether He had been dead long.
Mk 15:45And when he found out from the centurion, he granted the corpse to Joseph.
Mk 15:46And Joseph purchased a piece of fine linen, took Him down, and wrapped Him in the fine linen. And he laid Him in a tomb which was hewn out of rock and rolled a stone against the door of the tomb.
Mk 15:47And Mary the Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where He was laid.
Mk 16:1And when the Sabbath was past, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might come and anoint Him.
Mk 16:2And very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb as the sun rose.
Mk 16:3And they said to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the door of the tomb?
Mk 16:4And when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was extremely large.
Mk 16:5And when they entered into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, clothed in a white robe, and they were alarmed.
Mk 16:6And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You are seeking Jesus the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He has been raised; He is not here. Behold the place where they laid Him.
Mk 16:7But go, tell His disciples and Peter that He is going before you into Galilee. There you will see Him, even as He told you.
Mk 16:8And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.
Mk 16:9Now after He had risen early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary the Magdalene, from whom He had cast out seven demons.
Mk 16:10She went and reported to those who had been with Him, who were mourning and weeping.
Mk 16:11And when they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe.
Mk 16:12And after these things, He appeared in a different form to two of them as they were walking on their way into the countryside.
Mk 16:13And they went away and reported to the rest, but they did not believe them either.
Mk 16:14And afterward He appeared to the eleven as they were reclining at table, and He reproached their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen Him after He had risen.
Mk 16:15And He said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to all the creation.
Mk 16:16He who believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he who does not believe shall be condemned.
Mk 16:17And these signs will accompany those who believe: in My name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues;
Mk 16:18They will pick up serpents; and if they drink anything deadly, it shall by no means harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
Mk 16:19So then the Lord Jesus, after speaking to them, was taken up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
Mk 16:20And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word by the accompanying signs.
Lk 1:1Inasmuch as many have undertaken to draw up a narrative concerning the matters which have been fully accomplished among us,
Lk 1:2Even as those who from the beginning became eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us,
Lk 1:3It seemed good to me also, having carefully investigated all things from the first, to write them out for you in an orderly fashion, most excellent Theophilus,
Lk 1:4So that you may fully know the certainty of the things concerning which you were instructed.
Lk 1:5In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a certain priest named Zachariah, of the course of Abijah; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
Lk 1:6And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless.
Lk 1:7And they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both advanced in their days.
Lk 1:8And while he served as priest in the order of his course before God,
Lk 1:9According to the custom of the priestly service, the lot fell to him to enter into the temple of the Lord and burn incense.
Lk 1:10And all the multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of the burning of incense.
Lk 1:11And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense.
Lk 1:12And Zachariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
Lk 1:13But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zachariah, because your petition has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John.
Lk 1:14And you will have joy and exultation, and many will rejoice at his birth.
Lk 1:15For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and he shall by no means drink wine and liquor. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother’s womb,
Lk 1:16And many of the sons of Israel he will turn to the Lord their God.
Lk 1:17And it is he who will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the prudence of the righteous, to prepare for the Lord a people made ready.
Lk 1:18And Zachariah said to the angel, By what shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years.
Lk 1:19And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands before God, and I was sent to speak to you and to announce the good news of these things to you.
Lk 1:20And behold, you shall be silent and not able to speak until the day that these things happen, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time.
Lk 1:21And the people were waiting for Zachariah, and they marveled at his delaying in the temple.
Lk 1:22And when he came out, he was not able to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he made signs to them and remained dumb.
Lk 1:23And when the days of his service were fulfilled, he went to his house.
Lk 1:24And after these days Elizabeth his wife conceived and stayed in seclusion for five months, saying,
Lk 1:25In this way has the Lord dealt with me in the days in which He looked upon me to take away my reproach among men.
Lk 1:26And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,
Lk 1:27To a virgin engaged to a man named Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin’s name was Mary.
Lk 1:28And he came to her and said, Rejoice, you who have been graced! The Lord is with you.
Lk 1:29And she was greatly troubled at this saying and began reasoning what kind of greeting this might be.
Lk 1:30And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found grace with God.
Lk 1:31And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus.
Lk 1:32He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give to Him the throne of David His father,
Lk 1:33And He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there will be no end.
Lk 1:34But Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I have not known a man?
Lk 1:35And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore also the holy thing which is born will be called the Son of God.
Lk 1:36And behold, Elizabeth your relative, she also has conceived a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month for her who is called barren,
Lk 1:37Because no word will be impossible with God.
Lk 1:38And Mary said, Behold, the slave of the Lord. May it happen to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her.
Lk 1:39And Mary rose up in those days and went to the hill country with haste, to a city of Judah,
Lk 1:40And entered into the house of Zachariah and greeted Elizabeth.
Lk 1:41And when Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
Lk 1:42And she lifted up her voice with a loud cry and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
Lk 1:43And how has this happened to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Lk 1:44For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby leaped with exultation in my womb.
Lk 1:45And blessed is she who has believed, because there will be a completion of the things spoken to her from the Lord.
Lk 1:46And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord,
Lk 1:47And my spirit has exulted in God my Savior;
Lk 1:48Because He has looked upon the low estate of His slave. For behold, from now on all generations will count me blessed,
Lk 1:49Because the Mighty One has done great things for me, and holy is His name.
Lk 1:50And His mercy is unto generations and generations, unto those who fear Him.
Lk 1:51He has exercised might with His arm; He has scattered those who are proud in the understanding of their heart.
Lk 1:52He has brought down potentates from thrones and has exalted the humble;
Lk 1:53The hungry He has filled with good things, and the rich He has sent away empty.
Lk 1:54He has upheld Israel His servant to remember mercy,
Lk 1:55Even as He spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed forever.
Lk 1:56And Mary remained with her about three months, and returned to her home.
Lk 1:57Now the time was fulfilled for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.
Lk 1:58And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had magnified His mercy with her, and they rejoiced with her.
Lk 1:59And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the little child, and they tried to call him after the name of his father, Zachariah.
Lk 1:60Yet his mother answered and said, No, but he shall be called John.
Lk 1:61And they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.
Lk 1:62And they gestured to his father as to what he would want him to be called.
Lk 1:63And asking for a tablet, he wrote, saying, John is his name. And they all marveled.
Lk 1:64And his mouth was opened instantly, and his tongue loosed, and he began to speak, blessing God.
Lk 1:65And fear came on all those dwelling around them, and in all the hill country of Judea all these things were spread about.
Lk 1:66And all who heard these things put them in their heart, saying, What then will this little child be? For indeed the hand of the Lord was with him.
Lk 1:67And Zachariah his father was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying,
Lk 1:68Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, because He has visited and accomplished redemption for His people,
Lk 1:69And raised a horn of salvation for us in the house of David His servant,
Lk 1:70Even as He spoke through the mouth of His holy prophets from of old —
Lk 1:71Salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us,
Lk 1:72To accomplish mercy with our fathers and to remember His holy covenant,
Lk 1:73The oath which He swore to Abraham our father,
Lk 1:74To grant us that we, having been delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear,
Lk 1:75In holiness and righteousness before Him all our days.
Lk 1:76And you also, little child, shall be called a prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare His ways,
Lk 1:77To give knowledge of salvation to His people by the forgiveness of their sins,
Lk 1:78Because of the merciful compassions of our God, in which the rising sun will visit us from on high,
Lk 1:79To shine upon those sitting in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
Lk 1:80And the little child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his presentation to Israel.
Lk 2:1And in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus for a census to be taken of all the inhabited earth.
Lk 2:2This was the first census, which took place when Quirinius governed Syria.
Lk 2:3And all went to be registered, each to his own city.
Lk 2:4And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to David’s city, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David,
Lk 2:5To be registered with Mary, who was engaged to him and was pregnant.
Lk 2:6And while they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to bear,
Lk 2:7And she bore her firstborn son; and she wrapped Him in swaddling clothes and laid Him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn.
Lk 2:8And there were shepherds in the same region, spending their nights in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night.
Lk 2:9And an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them; and they feared greatly.
Lk 2:10And the angel said to them, Do not be afraid; for behold, I announce to you good news of great joy, which will be for all the people,
Lk 2:11Because today a Savior has been born to you in David’s city, who is Christ the Lord.
Lk 2:12And this will be the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger.
Lk 2:13And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God and saying,
Lk 2:14Glory in the highest places to God, and on earth peace among men of His good pleasure.
Lk 2:15And when the angels departed from them into heaven, the shepherds spoke to one another, Let us go then to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.
Lk 2:16And they came in haste and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in the manger.
Lk 2:17And when they had seen this, they made known the word which was spoken to them concerning this little child.
Lk 2:18And all those who heard marveled at the things spoken to them by the shepherds.
Lk 2:19But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart.
Lk 2:20And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things which they had heard and seen, even as it was spoken to them.
Lk 2:21And when eight days were fulfilled to circumcise Him, His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb.
Lk 2:22And when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought Him up to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord
Lk 2:23(Even as it is written in the law of the Lord, “Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord”),
Lk 2:24And to give a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord: A pair of turtledoves or two young doves.
Lk 2:25And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
Lk 2:26And it had been divinely communicated to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord’s Christ.
Lk 2:27And he came in the Spirit into the temple; and when the parents brought in the little child Jesus for them to do according to the custom of the law concerning Him,
Lk 2:28He received Him into his arms and blessed God and said,
Lk 2:29Now You release Your slave, Master, according to Your word, in peace;
Lk 2:30For my eyes have seen Your salvation,
Lk 2:31Which You have prepared before the face of all the peoples,
Lk 2:32A light for revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of Your people Israel.
Lk 2:33And His father and mother marveled at the things being spoken about Him.
Lk 2:34And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother, Behold, this One is appointed for the falling and rising up of many in Israel and for a sign spoken against — 
Lk 2:35And a sword will pierce through your own soul also — so that the reasonings of many hearts may be revealed.
Lk 2:36And there was one Anna, a prophetess, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was well advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from her virginity,
Lk 2:37And she was a widow up to the age of eighty-four, who did not depart from the temple, serving God with fastings and petitions night and day.
Lk 2:38And at that very hour she came up and returned thanks to God, and spoke concerning Him to all those waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
Lk 2:39And when they had finished all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.
Lk 2:40And the little child grew and became strong, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon Him.
Lk 2:41And His parents went year by year to Jerusalem at the Feast of the Passover.
Lk 2:42And when He became twelve years old, they went up according to the custom of the feast.
Lk 2:43And when they had completed the days, while they were returning, the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem, and His parents did not know it.
Lk 2:44But supposing that He was in the company, they went a day’s journey and sought Him among their relatives and acquaintances.
Lk 2:45And when they did not find Him, they returned to Jerusalem searching for Him.
Lk 2:46And after three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them and questioning them.
Lk 2:47And all those who heard Him were amazed at His understanding and His answers.
Lk 2:48And when they saw Him, they were astounded; and His mother said to Him, Child, why have You treated us like this? Behold, Your father and I, being greatly distressed, have been seeking You.
Lk 2:49And He said to them, Why is it that you were seeking Me? Did you not know that I must be in the things of My Father?
Lk 2:50And they did not understand the word which He spoke to them.
Lk 2:51And He went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And His mother carefully kept all these things in her heart.
Lk 2:52And Jesus advanced in wisdom and stature and in the grace manifested in Him before God and men.
Lk 3:1Now in the fifteenth year of the government of Tiberius Caesar, while Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene,
Lk 3:2During the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zachariah in the wilderness.
Lk 3:3And he came into all the region surrounding the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins,
Lk 3:4As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, “A voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight His paths.
Lk 3:5Every ravine shall be filled up, and every mountain and hill shall be leveled; and the crooked places shall become a straight way, and the rough ways smooth.
Lk 3:6And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.”
Lk 3:7He said therefore to the crowds going out to be baptized by him, Offspring of vipers, who prompted you to flee from the coming wrath?
Lk 3:8Produce then fruits worthy of your repentance, and do not begin to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as our father; for I tell you that God is able out of these stones to raise up children to Abraham.
Lk 3:9And already also the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
Lk 3:10And the crowds asked him, saying, What then shall we do?
Lk 3:11And he answered and said to them, He who has two tunics, let him share with the one who has none; and he who has food, let him do likewise.
Lk 3:12And tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, Teacher, what shall we do?
Lk 3:13And he said to them, Exact nothing more than what you have been ordered to.
Lk 3:14And some serving in the military also questioned him, saying, And we, what shall we do? And he said to them, Extort nothing from anyone by force, nor take anything by false accusation, and be content with your wages.
Lk 3:15Now while the people were in expectation and all were reasoning in their hearts concerning John, whether he might possibly be the Christ,
Lk 3:16John answered and said to all, I baptize you in water, but He who is stronger than I is coming, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He Himself will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire,
Lk 3:17Whose winnowing fan is in His hand to thoroughly cleanse His threshing floor and to gather the wheat into His barn, but the chaff He will burn up with unquenchable fire.
Lk 3:18So, exhorting them with many other things also, he announced the gospel to the people.
Lk 3:19But Herod the tetrarch, because he was reproved by him concerning Herodias, his brother’s wife, and concerning all the evil things which Herod did,
Lk 3:20Added this also above all: he shut John up in prison.
Lk 3:21Now when all the people were baptized and as Jesus was baptized and was praying, heaven was opened,
Lk 3:22And the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form as a dove upon Him. And a voice came out of heaven: You are My Son, the Beloved; in You I have found My delight.
Lk 3:23And He, Jesus, when He began to minister, was about thirty years old, being, so it was thought, the son of Joseph, the son of Heli,
Lk 3:24The son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
Lk 3:25The son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
Lk 3:26The son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
Lk 3:27The son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, the son of Neri,
Lk 3:28The son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
Lk 3:29The son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
Lk 3:30The son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
Lk 3:31The son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
Lk 3:32The son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
Lk 3:33The son of Aminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Hezron, the son of Pharez, the son of Judah,
Lk 3:34The son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
Lk 3:35The son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Sala,
Lk 3:36The son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
Lk 3:37The son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Maleleel, the son of Cainan,
Lk 3:38The son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
Lk 4:1And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness, while being tempted for forty days by the devil.
Lk 4:2And He did not eat anything in those days, and when they were concluded, He became hungry.
Lk 4:3And the devil said to Him, If You are the Son of God, speak to this stone that it become bread.
Lk 4:4And Jesus answered him, It is written, “Man shall not live on bread alone.”
Lk 4:5And he led Him up and showed Him all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth in a moment of time.
Lk 4:6And the devil said to Him, To You I will give all this authority and their glory, because to me it has been delivered, and to whomever I want I give it.
Lk 4:7If You therefore worship before me, it shall all be Yours.
Lk 4:8And Jesus answered and said to him, It is written, “You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.”
Lk 4:9And he led Him into Jerusalem and set Him on the wing of the temple and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, cast Yourself down from here;
Lk 4:10For it is written, “To His angels He shall give charge concerning You to protect You,
Lk 4:11And on their hands they shall bear You up, lest You strike Your foot against a stone.”
Lk 4:12And Jesus answered and said to him, It is said, “You shall not test the Lord your God.”
Lk 4:13And when the devil had concluded every temptation, he went away from Him until an opportune time.
Lk 4:14And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And reports about Him went out through all the surrounding region.
Lk 4:15And He taught in their synagogues and was glorified by all.
Lk 4:16And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and according to His custom He entered on the Sabbath day into the synagogue and stood up to read.
Lk 4:17And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. And He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written,
Lk 4:18“The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to announce the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to proclaim release to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind, to send away in release those who are oppressed,
Lk 4:19To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, the year of jubilee.”
Lk 4:20And when He rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant, He sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on Him.
Lk 4:21And He began to say to them, Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.
Lk 4:22And all bore witness to Him and marveled at the words of grace proceeding out of His mouth, and they said, Is not this Joseph’s son?
Lk 4:23And He said to them, Surely you will say this proverb to Me, Physician, heal yourself! What we heard happening in Capernaum, do here also in Your own country.
Lk 4:24And He said, Truly I say to you that no prophet is acceptable in his own country.
Lk 4:25But in truth I say to you, There were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, when a great famine came over all the land;
Lk 4:26And to none of them was Elijah sent, except to the city of Sarepta of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.
Lk 4:27And there were many lepers in Israel during the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them were cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian.
Lk 4:28And all in the synagogue were filled with anger when they heard these things,
Lk 4:29And they rose up and cast Him out of the city and led Him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built so that they might throw Him down the cliff.
Lk 4:30But He, passing through their midst, went away.
Lk 4:31And He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And He taught them on the Sabbath.
Lk 4:32And they were astounded at His teaching, because His word was with authority.
Lk 4:33And in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
Lk 4:34Ah! What do we have to do with You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are — the Holy One of God.
Lk 4:35And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out from him. And throwing him down in the midst, the demon came out from him without harming him at all.
Lk 4:36And amazement came upon all, and they spoke to one another, saying, What is this word? For with authority and power He orders the unclean spirits, and they come out.
Lk 4:37And reports went out concerning Him into every place of the surrounding region.
Lk 4:38And He rose up and went from the synagogue and entered into the house of Simon. And Simon’s mother-in-law was suffering with a high fever, and they asked Him concerning her.
Lk 4:39And standing over her, He rebuked the fever, and it left her. And she instantly rose up and served them.
Lk 4:40And when the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to Him; and He laid His hands on each one of them and healed them.
Lk 4:41And demons also came out from many, crying out and saying, You are the Son of God! And He rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ.
Lk 4:42And when day came, He departed and went into a deserted place. And the crowds sought Him, and they came up to Him and tried to hold on to Him so that He would not go away from them.
Lk 4:43But He said to them, I must announce the gospel of the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this I was sent.
Lk 4:44And He preached in the synagogues of Judea.
Lk 5:1And as the crowd pressed upon Him to hear the word of God, He was standing by the lake of Gennesaret.
Lk 5:2And He saw two boats lying by the lake, and the fishermen had gotten out of them and were washing the nets.
Lk 5:3And He got into one of the boats, which was Simon’s, and asked him to put out a little from the land. And He sat down and from the boat taught the crowds.
Lk 5:4And when He ceased speaking, He said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch.
Lk 5:5And Simon answered and said, Master, through the whole night we toiled and caught nothing; but based on Your word I will let down the nets.
Lk 5:6And when they did this, they enclosed a great number of fish, and their nets began to tear apart.
Lk 5:7And they signaled to their companions in the other boat to come and assist them. And they came and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
Lk 5:8And when Simon Peter saw this, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, Lord.
Lk 5:9For amazement had taken possession of him and all who were with him, because of the catch of the fish which they took;
Lk 5:10And likewise also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will be catching men alive.
Lk 5:11And when they had brought the boats to the land, they left all and followed Him.
Lk 5:12And while He was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged Him, saying, Lord, if You are willing, You can cleanse me.
Lk 5:13And stretching out His hand, He touched him, saying, I am willing; be cleansed! And immediately the leprosy left him.
Lk 5:14And He charged him to tell no one: But go away, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift for your cleansing, even as Moses directed, for a testimony to them.
Lk 5:15But the word concerning Him spread abroad all the more, and great crowds came together to hear Him and to be healed from their infirmities.
Lk 5:16But He Himself often withdrew in the wilderness and prayed.
Lk 5:17And on one of the days He was teaching, and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting there, who had come out of every village of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was with Him to heal.
Lk 5:18And behold, some men brought on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they sought a way to carry him in and lay him before Him.
Lk 5:19And since they could not find by what way they might carry him in because of the crowd, they went up onto the housetop and let him down with the cot through the tiles into the midst, in front of Jesus.
Lk 5:20And seeing their faith, He said, Man, your sins are forgiven you.
Lk 5:21And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins except God alone?
Lk 5:22But Jesus, knowing fully their reasonings, answered and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your hearts?
Lk 5:23Which is easier: to say, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Rise and walk?
Lk 5:24But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on the earth to forgive sins — He said to the one paralyzed, To you I say, Rise and take up your cot and go to your house.
Lk 5:25And he rose up at once before them and took up that upon which he was lying and went away to his house, glorifying God.
Lk 5:26And astonishment took hold of all, and they glorified God and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen extraordinary things today.
Lk 5:27And after these things He went out and beheld a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and He said to him, Follow Me.
Lk 5:28And leaving all, he rose up and followed Him.
Lk 5:29And Levi gave a great reception for Him in his house; and there was a great crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining at table with them.
Lk 5:30And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured at His disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?
Lk 5:31And Jesus answered and said to them, Those who are healthy have no need of a physician, but those who are ill;
Lk 5:32I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Lk 5:33And they said to Him, The disciples of John fast often and make petitions, likewise also those of the Pharisees, but Yours eat and drink.
Lk 5:34And Jesus said to them, You cannot make the sons of the bridechamber fast while the bridegroom is with them, can you?
Lk 5:35But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them; then they will fast in those days.
Lk 5:36And He also spoke a parable to them: No one tears a patch from a new garment and puts it on an old garment; otherwise, he will tear the new garment, and also the patch from the new will not match the old.
Lk 5:37And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the new wine will burst the wineskins, and it will be poured out and the wineskins will be ruined;
Lk 5:38But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
Lk 5:39And no one who has drunk the old desires the new, for he says, The old is better.
Lk 6:1And one Sabbath He was going through the grainfields, and His disciples were picking and eating the ears of grain, rubbing them in their hands.
Lk 6:2And some of the Pharisees said, Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?
Lk 6:3And Jesus answered them and said, Have you not even read this that David did when he became hungry, he and those who were with him;
Lk 6:4How he entered into the house of God, and taking the bread of the Presence, he ate it and gave some to those with him, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except the priests alone?
Lk 6:5And He said to them, The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
Lk 6:6And on another Sabbath He entered into the synagogue and taught. And there was a man there, and his right hand was withered.
Lk 6:7And the scribes and the Pharisees were watching Him closely to see if He would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find reason to accuse Him.
Lk 6:8But He knew their reasonings and said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise and stand in the midst. And he rose up and stood.
Lk 6:9And Jesus said to them, I ask you, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save a life or to destroy it?
Lk 6:10And looking around at all of them, He said to him, Stretch out your hand. And he did, and his hand was restored.
Lk 6:11But they were filled with rage and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
Lk 6:12And in these days He went out to the mountain to pray, and He spent the whole night in prayer to God.
Lk 6:13And when it became day, He called His disciples to Him, and He chose from them twelve, whom He also named apostles:
Lk 6:14Simon, whom He also named Peter, and Andrew his brother and James and John and Philip and Bartholomew
Lk 6:15And Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Alphaeus and Simon, who was called Zealot,
Lk 6:16And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became the traitor.
Lk 6:17And He came down with them and stood on a level place; and there was a great crowd of His disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon, who had come to hear Him and to be healed of their diseases.
Lk 6:18And those who were troubled by unclean spirits were healed.
Lk 6:19And all the crowd sought to touch Him, because power was going out from Him and healing all.
Lk 6:20And He lifted up His eyes to His disciples and said, Blessed are the poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Lk 6:21Blessed are those who hunger now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are those who weep now, for you shall laugh.
Lk 6:22Blessed are you when men hate you and when they separate you from them and reproach you and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of Man’s sake.
Lk 6:23Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets.
Lk 6:24But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation in full.
Lk 6:25Woe to you who are satiated now, for you shall hunger. Woe to you who are laughing now, for you shall mourn and weep.
Lk 6:26Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets.
Lk 6:27But to you who hear I say, Love your enemies; do well to those who hate you;
Lk 6:28Bless those who curse you; pray for those who revile you.
Lk 6:29To him who beats you on the cheek, offer the other also; and from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either.
Lk 6:30To everyone who asks of you, give; and from him who takes away your things, do not require their return.
Lk 6:31And just as you want men to do to you, do to them likewise.
Lk 6:32And if you love those who love you, what thanks is it to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
Lk 6:33For if you also do good to those who do good to you, what thanks is it to you? Even sinners do the same.
Lk 6:34And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what thanks is it to you? Even sinners lend to sinners that they may get back the equal amount.
Lk 6:35But love your enemies, and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; for He is kind to the unthankful and evil.
Lk 6:36Be full of compassion, even as your Father also is full of compassion.
Lk 6:37And do not judge, and you shall by no means be judged; and do not condemn, and you shall by no means be condemned; release, and you will be released;
Lk 6:38Give, and it will be given to you; a good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, they will give into your bosom. For with what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you in return.
Lk 6:39And He also spoke a parable to them: A blind man cannot guide a blind man, can he? Will not both fall into a pit?
Lk 6:40A disciple is not above the teacher, but everyone who has been perfected will be like his teacher.
Lk 6:41And why do you look at the splinter which is in your brother’s eye, but the beam which is in your own eye you do not consider?
Lk 6:42How can you say to your brother, Brother, let me remove the splinter which is in your eye, you yourself not seeing the beam which is in your eye? Hypocrite, first remove the beam from your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the splinter which is in your brother’s eye.
Lk 6:43For there is no good tree that produces corrupt fruit, nor again a corrupt tree that produces good fruit.
Lk 6:44For each tree is known by its own fruit. For men do not collect figs from thorns, nor do they pick grapes from a thornbush.
Lk 6:45The good man, out of the good treasure of his heart, brings forth that which is good, and the evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, brings forth that which is evil; for out of the abundance of his heart his mouth speaks.
Lk 6:46And why do you call Me, Lord, Lord, and do not do the things that I say?
Lk 6:47Everyone who comes to Me and hears My words and does them, I will show you whom he is like.
Lk 6:48He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep and laid a foundation on the rock. And when a flood came, the river broke out against that house, yet it was not strong enough to shake it, because it had been built well.
Lk 6:49But he who hears and does not do is like a man who built a house upon the earth without a foundation, against which the river broke out, and immediately it collapsed, and the crash of that house was great.
Lk 7:1After He completed all His words in the hearing of the people, He entered into Capernaum.
Lk 7:2And a certain centurion’s slave, who was highly valued by him, was ill and about to die.
Lk 7:3And when he heard about Jesus, he sent to Him some elders of the Jews, requesting that He would come and completely heal his slave.
Lk 7:4And when they came to Jesus, they entreated Him earnestly, saying, He is worthy of Your granting this to him,
Lk 7:5For he loves our nation, and he himself built the synagogue for us.
Lk 7:6And Jesus went with them. But already, when He was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to Him, Lord, do not trouble Yourself, for I am not fit for You to enter under my roof;
Lk 7:7Therefore, I did not count even myself worthy to come to You. But speak a word, and let my servant be healed.
Lk 7:8For I also am a man set under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my slave, Do this, and he does it.
Lk 7:9And when Jesus heard these things, He marveled at him, and turning to the crowd following Him, He said, I say to you, Not even in Israel have I found such great faith.
Lk 7:10And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the slave in good health.
Lk 7:11And soon afterward He went into a city called Nain, and His disciples went with Him, as well as a large crowd.
Lk 7:12And as He came near the gate of the city, behold, one who had died was being carried out, an only son of his mother, and she was a widow; and a considerable crowd from the city was with her.
Lk 7:13And when the Lord saw her, He was moved with compassion for her and said to her, Do not weep.
Lk 7:14And He came near and touched the bier, and those carrying it stood still. And He said, Young man, to you I say, Arise.
Lk 7:15And the dead man sat up and began to speak. And He gave him to his mother.
Lk 7:16And fear took hold of all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has been raised up among us, and, God has visited His people!
Lk 7:17And this report concerning Him went out in the whole of Judea and in all the surrounding region.
Lk 7:18And John’s disciples reported to him concerning all these things.
Lk 7:19And John called a certain two of his disciples to him and sent them to the Lord, saying, Are You the Coming One, or should we expect another?
Lk 7:20And the men came to Him and said, John the Baptist sent us to You, saying, Are You the Coming One, or should we expect another?
Lk 7:21In that hour He healed many from diseases and afflictions and evil spirits, and to many who were blind He graciously gave sight.
Lk 7:22And He answered and said to them, Go and report to John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel announced to them.
Lk 7:23And blessed is he who is not stumbled because of Me.
Lk 7:24And when the messengers of John went away, He began to say to the crowds concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to look at? A reed shaken by the wind?
Lk 7:25But what did you go out to see? A man arrayed in soft garments? Behold, those who live in splendid apparel and luxury are in royal palaces.
Lk 7:26But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
Lk 7:27This is he concerning whom it is written, “Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.”
Lk 7:28I say to you, Among those born of women there is no one greater than John, yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
Lk 7:29And when all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they acknowledged that God was righteous, since they had been baptized with the baptism of John.
Lk 7:30But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God for themselves since they had not been baptized by him.
Lk 7:31And Jesus said, To what then shall I liken the men of this generation, and what are they like?
Lk 7:32They are like little children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, who say, We have played the flute to you, and you did not dance; we have sung a dirge, and you did not weep.
Lk 7:33For John the Baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, He has a demon.
Lk 7:34The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.
Lk 7:35Yet wisdom is justified by all her children.
Lk 7:36Now a certain one of the Pharisees asked Him to eat with him. And He entered into the Pharisee’s house and reclined at table.
Lk 7:37And behold, there was a woman in the city who was a sinner, and when she learned that He was reclining at table in the Pharisee’s house, she brought an alabaster flask of ointment.
Lk 7:38And she stood behind Him at His feet weeping and began to wet His feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head, and she kissed His feet affectionately and anointed them with the ointment.
Lk 7:39But when the Pharisee who had invited Him saw this, he said within himself, This man, if He were a prophet, would know who and what sort of woman this is who is touching Him, because she is a sinner.
Lk 7:40And Jesus answered and said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he said, Teacher, say it.
Lk 7:41A certain moneylender had two debtors: one owed five hundred denarii and the other fifty.
Lk 7:42But since they had nothing with which to repay, he graciously forgave them both. Which of them therefore will love him more?
Lk 7:43Simon answered and said, I suppose the one whom he graciously forgave the more. And He said to him, You have judged correctly.
Lk 7:44And turning to the woman, He said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered into your house; you did not give Me water for My feet, but she, with her tears, has wet My feet and with her hair has wiped them.
Lk 7:45You did not give Me a kiss, but she, from the time I entered, has not stopped kissing My feet affectionately.
Lk 7:46You did not anoint My head with oil, but she has anointed My feet with ointment.
Lk 7:47For this reason I say to you, Her sins which are many are forgiven, because she loved much; but to whom little is forgiven, he loves little.
Lk 7:48And He said to her, Your sins are forgiven.
Lk 7:49And those who were reclining at table with Him began to say within themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins?
Lk 7:50But He said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.
Lk 8:1And soon afterward He journeyed from city to city and village to village, preaching and announcing the gospel of the kingdom of God; and the twelve were with Him,
Lk 8:2As well as certain women who were healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
Lk 8:3And Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many other women, who ministered to them out of their possessions.
Lk 8:4And while a great crowd was coming together and those from city to city were journeying to Him, He spoke by way of a parable:
Lk 8:5The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some seed fell beside the way, and it was trampled underfoot, and the birds of heaven devoured it.
Lk 8:6And other seed fell on the rock, and as it grew, it withered because it had no moisture.
Lk 8:7And other seed fell in the midst of the thorns, and the thorns grew with it and choked it off.
Lk 8:8And other seed fell into the good earth, and when it grew, it produced fruit a hundredfold. When He had said these things, He called out, He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Lk 8:9And His disciples questioned Him as to what this parable might be.
Lk 8:10And He said, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest they are in parables, in order that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.
Lk 8:11Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
Lk 8:12And those beside the way are those who heard; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their heart, so that they would not believe and be saved.
Lk 8:13And those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; yet these have no root, who believe only for a while, and in time of trial they draw back.
Lk 8:14And that which fell into the thorns, these are those who heard and, going away, are utterly choked by anxieties and riches and pleasures of this life, and do not bring any fruit to maturity.
Lk 8:15But that which is in the good earth, these are those who in a noble and good heart hear the word and hold it fast and bear fruit with endurance.
Lk 8:16Now no one who has lit a lamp covers it with a vessel or puts it underneath a bed, but he puts it on a lampstand in order that those who come in may see the light.
Lk 8:17For nothing is hidden which shall not become manifest, nor concealed which shall not by all means be made known and come into the open.
Lk 8:18Take heed therefore how you hear, for whoever has, it shall be given to him, and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has shall be taken away from him.
Lk 8:19And His mother and brothers came up to Him and were not able to get to Him because of the crowd.
Lk 8:20And it was reported to Him, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside wanting to see You.
Lk 8:21But He answered and said to them, My mother and My brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.
Lk 8:22And on one of the days He and His disciples got into a boat. And He said to them, Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they launched out.
Lk 8:23And while they were sailing, He fell asleep. And a windstorm came down upon the lake, and they began to fill with water and were in danger.
Lk 8:24And they came to Him and woke Him, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing! And being awakened, He rebuked the wind and the surging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm.
Lk 8:25And He said to them, Where is your faith? And they became frightened and marveled, saying to one another, Who then is this, that He orders even the winds and the water, and they obey Him?
Lk 8:26And they sailed down to the region of the Gerasenes, which is across from Galilee.
Lk 8:27And when He went out onto the land, a certain man out of the city, who had demons, met Him, and for a considerable time he had not put on clothes and did not remain in a house but among the tombs.
Lk 8:28And when he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell before Him and said in a loud voice, What do I have to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beseech You, do not torment me.
Lk 8:29For He had charged the unclean spirit to come out from the man; for many times it had seized him and he had been bound with chains and shackles and was kept under watch, yet every time he tore the bonds apart and was driven by the demon into the wilderness.
Lk 8:30And Jesus questioned him, What is your name? And he said, Legion, because many demons had entered into him.
Lk 8:31And they entreated Him not to order them to depart into the abyss.
Lk 8:32Now there was a herd of many hogs feeding there on the mountain. And they entreated Him to permit them to enter into them, and He gave them permission.
Lk 8:33And the demons came out from the man and entered into the hogs, and the herd rushed down the steep slope into the lake and was drowned.
Lk 8:34And when those who were feeding them saw what had happened, they fled and reported it in the city and in the countryside.
Lk 8:35And the people went out to see what had happened. And they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had come out, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and sane, and they became frightened.
Lk 8:36And those who had seen it reported to them how the demon-possessed man had been healed.
Lk 8:37And all the multitude from the surrounding region of the Gerasenes asked Him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear; and He got into a boat and returned.
Lk 8:38And the man from whom the demons had come out begged to be with Him, but He sent him away, saying,
Lk 8:39Return to your house, and relate what great things God has done for you. And he departed, proclaiming throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him.
Lk 8:40Now as Jesus was returning, the crowd welcomed Him, for they were all waiting for Him.
Lk 8:41And behold, a man came whose name was Jairus, and this man was a ruler of the synagogue. And he fell at Jesus’ feet and entreated Him to enter into his house,
Lk 8:42Because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. And as He went, the crowds pressed against Him.
Lk 8:43And a woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years and who had spent all her livelihood on physicians and yet could not be healed by anyone,
Lk 8:44Approached Him from behind and touched the fringe of His garment, and instantly her flow of blood stopped.
Lk 8:45And Jesus said, Who is the one who touched Me? And when all denied it, Peter said, Master, the crowds are pressing and crushing You.
Lk 8:46But Jesus said, Someone touched Me, for I perceived that power had gone out from Me.
Lk 8:47And when the woman saw that she had not escaped notice, she came trembling and fell down before Him and declared before all the people the reason why she had touched Him and how she had been instantly healed.
Lk 8:48And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace.
Lk 8:49While He was still speaking, someone came from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, saying, Your daughter has died; do not trouble the Teacher any longer.
Lk 8:50But Jesus, hearing it, answered him, Do not be afraid — only believe, and she will be healed.
Lk 8:51And He came to the house and did not allow anyone to enter with Him, except Peter and John and James and the father of the child and the mother.
Lk 8:52And all were weeping and mourning for her; but He said, Do not weep, for she has not died but is sleeping.
Lk 8:53And they laughed scornfully at Him, knowing that she had died.
Lk 8:54But He took hold of her hand and called out, saying, Child, arise!
Lk 8:55And her spirit returned and she rose up instantly; and He directed that something be given to her to eat.
Lk 8:56And her parents were amazed, but He charged them to tell no one what had happened.
Lk 9:1And He called together the twelve and gave them power and authority over all the demons and to heal diseases.
Lk 9:2And He sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
Lk 9:3And He said to them, Take nothing for the journey, neither a staff nor a bag nor bread nor money, nor have two tunics apiece.
Lk 9:4And into whatever house you enter, remain there and from there go out.
Lk 9:5And as many as do not receive you, as you go out from that city, shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
Lk 9:6And they went out and passed through village after village, announcing the gospel and healing everywhere.
Lk 9:7And Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was happening and was utterly perplexed, because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead,
Lk 9:8And by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that a certain prophet of the ancients had risen up.
Lk 9:9And Herod said, John I beheaded, but who is this concerning whom I hear such things? And he sought to see Him.
Lk 9:10And when the apostles returned, they related to Him the things they had done. And taking them aside, He withdrew privately into a city called Bethsaida.
Lk 9:11But the crowds found out and followed Him, and He welcomed them and spoke to them concerning the kingdom of God; and those who had need of healing He healed.
Lk 9:12And the day began to decline, and the twelve came and said to Him, Send the crowd away so that they may go into the surrounding villages and countryside to lodge and find provisions, because we are here in a deserted place.
Lk 9:13But He said to them, You give them something to eat. But they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people.
Lk 9:14For there were about five thousand men. And He said to His disciples, Make them recline in groups of about fifty each.
Lk 9:15And they did so and made them all recline.
Lk 9:16And He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke them and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd.
Lk 9:17And they ate and were all satisfied. And what was left over among them was taken up, twelve handbaskets of broken pieces.
Lk 9:18And as He was praying alone, the disciples were with Him, and He questioned them, saying, Who do the crowds say that I am?
Lk 9:19And they answered and said, John the Baptist, and others Elijah, and others that a certain prophet of the ancients has risen up.
Lk 9:20And He said to them, But you, who do you say that I am? And Peter answered and said, The Christ of God.
Lk 9:21But He charged them and commanded them to tell this to no one,
Lk 9:22Saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised.
Lk 9:23And He said to them all, If anyone wants to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow Me.
Lk 9:24For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever loses his soul-life for My sake, this one shall save it.
Lk 9:25For what is a man profited if he gains the whole world but loses or forfeits himself?
Lk 9:26For whoever is ashamed of Me and of My words, of this one will the Son of Man be ashamed when He comes in His glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.
Lk 9:27But I say to you truly, There are some of those standing here who shall by no means taste death until they see the kingdom of God.
Lk 9:28And about eight days after these words, He took with Him Peter and John and James, and went up into the mountain to pray.
Lk 9:29And as He prayed, the appearance of His face became different, and His garment dazzling white.
Lk 9:30And behold, two men were conversing with Him, who were Moses and Elijah,
Lk 9:31Who appeared in glory and spoke of His departure, which He was about to complete in Jerusalem.
Lk 9:32Now Peter and those with him had been overcome with sleep, but when they had fully woken up, they saw His glory and the two men who were standing with Him.
Lk 9:33And as they were departing from Him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah — not knowing what he was saying.
Lk 9:34And while he said these things, a cloud appeared and overshadowed them; and they became frightened as they entered into the cloud.
Lk 9:35And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is My Son, the Chosen One. Hear Him!
Lk 9:36And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and reported to no one in those days anything of what they had seen.
Lk 9:37And on the following day, when they came down from the mountain, a great crowd met Him.
Lk 9:38And behold, a man from the crowd called out, saying, Teacher, I beg You to look upon my son, for he is my only child.
Lk 9:39And behold, a spirit takes him, and suddenly he cries out, and it throws him into convulsions with foaming; and it hardly goes away from him, all the time crushing him.
Lk 9:40And I begged Your disciples to cast it out, and they could not.
Lk 9:41And Jesus answered and said, O unbelieving and perverted generation! How long shall I be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.
Lk 9:42And just as he was coming to Him, the demon threw him down and greatly convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child and gave him back to his father.
Lk 9:43And all were astounded at the majesty of God. And while all were marveling at all the things which He did, He said to His disciples,
Lk 9:44Put these words into your ears; for the Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.
Lk 9:45But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them so that they would not perceive it; and they were afraid to ask Him concerning this saying.
Lk 9:46And reasoning came in among them as to which of them was greatest.
Lk 9:47And Jesus, seeing the reasoning of their heart, took hold of a little child and stood him beside Himself,
Lk 9:48And He said to them, Whoever receives this little child because of My name receives Me; and whoever receives Me receives Him who sent Me; for he who is least among you all, this one is great.
Lk 9:49And John answered and said, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow with us.
Lk 9:50But Jesus said to him, Do not forbid him, for he who is not against you is for you.
Lk 9:51And as the days were being fulfilled for Him to be taken up, He steadfastly set His face to go to Jerusalem.
Lk 9:52And He sent messengers before His face. And they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to prepare for Him.
Lk 9:53And they did not receive Him, because His face was set to go to Jerusalem.
Lk 9:54And seeing this, the disciples James and John said, Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?
Lk 9:55But turning, He rebuked them and said, You do not know of what kind of spirit you are.
Lk 9:56The Son of Man has not come to destroy men’s lives but to save them. And they went into another village.
Lk 9:57And as they went along the road, someone said to Him, I will follow You wherever You go.
Lk 9:58And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of heaven have roosts, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.
Lk 9:59And He said to another, Follow Me. But he said, Lord, permit me to go first and bury my father.
Lk 9:60But He said to him, Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and announce the kingdom of God everywhere.
Lk 9:61And another also said, I will follow You, Lord; but first permit me to say farewell to those in my house.
Lk 9:62But Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand on the plow and looks behind is fit for the kingdom of God.
Lk 10:1Now after these things, the Lord appointed seventy others and sent them two by two before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to come.
Lk 10:2And He said to them, The harvest is great, but the workers few; therefore, beseech the Lord of the harvest that He would thrust out workers into His harvest.
Lk 10:3Go; behold, I send you as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Lk 10:4Do not carry a purse, nor a bag, nor sandals; and greet no one on the way.
Lk 10:5And into whatever house you enter, first say, Peace to this house.
Lk 10:6And if a son of peace is there, your peace shall rest upon it; but if not, it shall return upon you.
Lk 10:7And in that house remain, eating and drinking the things from them, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not move from house to house.
Lk 10:8And into whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat what is set before you;
Lk 10:9And heal the sick who are in it and say to them, The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.
Lk 10:10But into whatever city you enter and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say,
Lk 10:11Even the dust from your city which clings to our feet, we wipe off against you; yet know this, that the kingdom of God has drawn near.
Lk 10:12I say to you that it will be more tolerable for Sodom in that day than for that city.
Lk 10:13Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the works of power which took place in you had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Lk 10:14Yet it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.
Lk 10:15And you, Capernaum, who have been exalted to heaven, to Hades you will be brought down.
Lk 10:16He who hears you hears Me, and he who rejects you rejects Me, and he who rejects Me rejects Him who sent Me.
Lk 10:17And the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name.
Lk 10:18And He said to them, I was watching Satan fall like lightning out of heaven.
Lk 10:19Behold, I have given you the authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Lk 10:20However do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are recorded in the heavens.
Lk 10:21In that hour He exulted in the Holy Spirit and said, I extol You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to babes. Yes, Father, for thus it has been well pleasing in Your sight.
Lk 10:22All things have been delivered to Me by My Father; and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son and him to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.
Lk 10:23And turning to the disciples, He said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see.
Lk 10:24For I tell you that many prophets and kings have wanted to perceive the things that you see, and have not perceived them, and to hear the things that you hear, and have not heard them.
Lk 10:25And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and put Him to the test, saying, Teacher, what should I do to inherit eternal life?
Lk 10:26And He said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it?
Lk 10:27And he answered and said, “You shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole strength and with your whole mind, and your neighbor as yourself.”
Lk 10:28And He said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you shall have life.
Lk 10:29But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor?
Lk 10:30Jesus, taking up the question, said, A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who having both stripped him and beaten him, went away, leaving him half dead.
Lk 10:31And by coincidence a certain priest was going down on that road; and when he saw him, he passed by on the opposite side.
Lk 10:32And likewise also a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the opposite side.
Lk 10:33But a certain Samaritan, who was journeying, came upon him; and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion;
Lk 10:34And he came to him and bound up his wounds and poured oil and wine on them. And placing him on his own beast, he brought him to an inn and took care of him.
Lk 10:35And on the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper and said, Take care of him; and whatever you spend in addition to this, when I return, I will repay you.
Lk 10:36Which of these three, does it seem to you, has become a neighbor to him who fell into the hands of the robbers?
Lk 10:37And he said, The one who showed mercy to him. And Jesus said to him, Go, and you do likewise.
Lk 10:38Now as they went, He entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her home.
Lk 10:39And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at the Lord’s feet and was listening to His word.
Lk 10:40But Martha was being drawn about with much serving, and she came up to Him and said, Lord, does it not matter to You that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to do her part with me.
Lk 10:41But the Lord answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things;
Lk 10:42But there is need of one thing, for Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her.
Lk 11:1And while He was in a certain place praying, when He ceased, a certain one of His disciples said to Him, Lord, teach us to pray, even as John also taught his disciples.
Lk 11:2And He said to them, When you pray, say, Father, Your name be sanctified; Your kingdom come.
Lk 11:3Give us each day our daily bread.
Lk 11:4And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone indebted to us. And do not bring us into temptation.
Lk 11:5And He said to them, Who among you will have a friend and will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves,
Lk 11:6Since a friend of mine has come to me from a journey and I have nothing to set before him;
Lk 11:7And that one, from inside, will answer and say, Do not trouble me; the door is already shut and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise up and give you anything?
Lk 11:8I say to you, Even though he will not rise up and give him anything because he is his friend, surely because of his shameless persistence he will rise and give him what he needs.
Lk 11:9And I say to you, Ask and it shall be given to you; seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you.
Lk 11:10For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it shall be opened.
Lk 11:11But what father among you whose son shall ask for a fish will instead of a fish hand him a snake?
Lk 11:12Or if he shall also ask for an egg will hand him a scorpion?
Lk 11:13If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the Father who is from heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!
Lk 11:14And once He was casting out a demon, and it was dumb. And when the demon had gone out, the dumb man spoke, and the crowds marveled.
Lk 11:15But some of them said, By Beelzebul, the ruler of the demons, He casts out the demons.
Lk 11:16And others, tempting Him, sought from Him a sign out of heaven.
Lk 11:17But He, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself becomes desolate, and a house divided against a house falls.
Lk 11:18And if Satan also is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? For you say that it is by Beelzebul that I cast out the demons.
Lk 11:19But if I by Beelzebul cast out the demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
Lk 11:20But if I by the finger of God cast out the demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Lk 11:21When the strong man, fully armed, guards his own homestead, his possessions are in peace.
Lk 11:22But when one stronger than he comes upon him and overcomes him, he takes away his whole armor in which he had trusted and distributes his spoil.
Lk 11:23He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters.
Lk 11:24When the unclean spirit goes out from the man, it roams through waterless places, seeking rest, and not finding it, it says, I will return to my house from which I came out.
Lk 11:25And it comes and finds it swept and decorated.
Lk 11:26Then it goes and takes along other spirits more evil than itself, seven of them, and they enter and settle down there. And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first.
Lk 11:27And as He said these things, a certain woman out of the crowd lifted up her voice and said to Him, Blessed is the womb that bore You and the breasts at which You nursed.
Lk 11:28But He said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it.
Lk 11:29And as the crowds were thronging together, He began to say, This generation is an evil generation; it seeks a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it except the sign of Jonah.
Lk 11:30For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so also will the Son of Man be to this generation.
Lk 11:31The queen of the south will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something more than Solomon is here.
Lk 11:32Ninevite men will stand up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something more than Jonah is here.
Lk 11:33No one, after lighting a lamp, puts it in the cellar or under the bushel, but on the lampstand, in order that those who enter in may see the light.
Lk 11:34The lamp of the body is your eye. When your eye is single, your whole body also is full of light; but when it is evil, your body also is dark.
Lk 11:35Watch out therefore that the light which is in you is not darkness.
Lk 11:36If therefore your whole body is full of light and does not have any dark part, the whole will be full of light as when the lamp with its rays illuminates you.
Lk 11:37Now as He spoke, a Pharisee asked Him to have the morning meal with him; and He went in and reclined at table.
Lk 11:38But the Pharisee, seeing it, marveled that He had not first washed before the meal.
Lk 11:39But the Lord said to him, Again, you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter, but your inside is full of extortion and wickedness.
Lk 11:40Foolish ones! Did not He who made the outside make the inside also?
Lk 11:41But give the things which are within as alms, and behold, all things are clean to you.
Lk 11:42But woe to you, Pharisees! For you give a tenth of the mint and the rue and every herb, and pass by justice and love for God. But these you should have done and not passed by the others.
Lk 11:43Woe to you, Pharisees! For you love the chief seat in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces.
Lk 11:44Woe to you! For you are like the unseen tombs, and the men who walk over them do not know it.
Lk 11:45And one of the lawyers answered and said to Him, Teacher, by saying these things, you insult us also.
Lk 11:46And He said, Woe to you lawyers also! For you burden men with burdens hard to bear, yet you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Lk 11:47Woe to you! For you build up the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
Lk 11:48You are witnesses then and fully approve of the works of your fathers, because they killed them, and you build up their tombs.
Lk 11:49Therefore the wisdom of God also has said, I will send to them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill and persecute,
Lk 11:50In order that the blood of all the prophets which has been poured out from the foundation of the world may be required of this generation,
Lk 11:51From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the house. Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation.
Lk 11:52Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge; you yourselves did not enter, and those who were entering, you hindered.
Lk 11:53And when He went out from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be very hostile and to provoke Him to speak concerning many things,
Lk 11:54Lying in wait for Him in order to catch something out of His mouth.
Lk 12:1Meanwhile, when the myriads of the crowd were gathered together so that they trampled on one another, He began to say to His disciples first, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
Lk 12:2But there is nothing covered up which will not be revealed, and hidden which will not be known.
Lk 12:3Therefore what you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light, and what you have spoken in the ear in the private rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.
Lk 12:4And I say to you My friends, Do not fear those who kill the body and afterward have nothing more that they can do.
Lk 12:5But I will show you whom you should fear: fear Him who, after killing, has authority to cast into Gehenna; yes, I tell you, fear this One.
Lk 12:6Are not five sparrows sold for two assaria? And not one of them is forgotten before God.
Lk 12:7But even the hairs of your head have all been numbered. Do not be afraid; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Lk 12:8Moreover, I tell you, Everyone who confesses in Me before men, the Son of Man will also confess in him before the angels of God;
Lk 12:9But he who denies Me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
Lk 12:10And everyone who will say a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven.
Lk 12:11And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how or what you should reply in defense, or what you should say;
Lk 12:12For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that hour what should be said.
Lk 12:13And someone out of the crowd said to Him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
Lk 12:14But He said to him, Man, who appointed Me a judge or a divider over you?
Lk 12:15And He said to them, Watch and guard yourself from all covetousness, for no one’s life is in the abundance of his possessions.
Lk 12:16And He told them a parable, saying, The land of a certain rich man brought forth abundantly.
Lk 12:17And he reasoned in himself, saying, What shall I do, for I have no place where I may gather my crops?
Lk 12:18And he said, I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and I will gather there all my wheat and my goods.
Lk 12:19And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years; rest, eat, drink, be merry.
Lk 12:20But God said to him, Foolish one, this night they are requiring your soul from you; and the things which you have prepared, whose will they be?
Lk 12:21So is he who stores up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.
Lk 12:22And He said to His disciples, Therefore I say to you, Do not be anxious for your life, what you should eat; nor for your body, what you should put on;
Lk 12:23For the life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Lk 12:24Consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn; yet God nourishes them. How much more valuable are you than the birds!
Lk 12:25And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his stature?
Lk 12:26If then you cannot do even the least, why are you anxious about the rest?
Lk 12:27Consider the lilies, how they grow; they do not toil nor even spin thread; but I tell you, Not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these.
Lk 12:28Now if God so arrays the grass in the field, which is here today and tomorrow is cast into the furnace, how much more will He clothe you, you of little faith!
Lk 12:29And you, do not seek what you shall eat and what you shall drink, and do not be unsettled.
Lk 12:30For all these things the Gentiles of the world are anxiously seeking, but your Father knows that you need these things.
Lk 12:31However, seek His kingdom, and these things shall be added to you.
Lk 12:32Do not be afraid, little flock, because your Father has been well pleased to give you the kingdom.
Lk 12:33Sell your possessions and give alms; make for yourselves purses which do not become old, an unfailing treasure in the heavens, where thief does not come near nor even moth corrupts;
Lk 12:34For where your treasure is, there also your heart will be.
Lk 12:35Let your loins be girded and your lamps burning,
Lk 12:36And you be like men waiting for their own master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that when he comes and knocks they may open to him immediately.
Lk 12:37Blessed are those slaves whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Truly I tell you that he will gird himself and will have them recline at table, and he will come to them and serve them.
Lk 12:38And if he comes in the second watch, or if in the third, and finds them so, blessed are those slaves.
Lk 12:39But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
Lk 12:40You also, be ready, because at an hour when you do not expect it, the Son of Man is coming.
Lk 12:41And Peter said, Lord, are You saying this parable to us, or also to all?
Lk 12:42And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and prudent steward, whom the master will set over his service to give them their portion of food at the proper time?
Lk 12:43Blessed is that slave whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing.
Lk 12:44Truly I tell you that he will set him over all his possessions.
Lk 12:45But if that slave says in his heart, My master is delaying his coming, and begins to beat the male servants and the female servants and to eat and to drink and become drunk,
Lk 12:46The master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour which he does not know, and will cut him asunder, and will appoint his portion with the unbelievers.
Lk 12:47And that slave who knew his master’s will and did not prepare or do according to his will, will receive many lashes;
Lk 12:48But he who did not know, yet did things worthy of stripes, will receive few lashes. But to everyone to whom much has been given, much will be required from him; and to whom much has been committed, they will ask of him all the more.
Lk 12:49I have come to cast fire on the earth, and how I wish that it were already kindled!
Lk 12:50But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how I am pressed until it is accomplished!
Lk 12:51Do you think that I have come to give peace on the earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.
Lk 12:52For from now on there will be five in one house divided, three against two and two against three.
Lk 12:53They will be divided: father against son and son against father; mother against her daughter and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
Lk 12:54And He said also to the crowds, When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say that a shower is coming, and so it happens.
Lk 12:55And when you see a south wind blowing, you say that there will be scorching heat, and it happens.
Lk 12:56Hypocrites, you know how to discern the face of the earth and of the sky. How is it then that you do not know how to discern this time?
Lk 12:57And why do you not judge also of yourselves what is right?
Lk 12:58For as you are going with your opponent at law to a magistrate, endeavor to be released from him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge; and the judge will deliver you up to the officer, and the officer will throw you into prison.
Lk 12:59I tell you, You shall by no means come out from there until you have paid the very last lepton.
Lk 13:1Now there were some present at the same time who reported to Him concerning the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.
Lk 13:2And He answered and said to them, Do you think that these Galileans were sinners beyond all the Galileans because they suffered these things?
Lk 13:3No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you shall all likewise perish.
Lk 13:4Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, do you think that they were debtors beyond all the men dwelling in Jerusalem?
Lk 13:5No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you shall all similarly perish.
Lk 13:6And He told this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came seeking fruit on it and did not find any.
Lk 13:7And he said to the vinedresser, Behold, for three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I have not found any. Cut it down therefore. Why does it also make the ground useless?
Lk 13:8But he answered and said to him, Master, leave it this year also, until I dig around it and throw on manure.
Lk 13:9And if it produces fruit in the future, good; otherwise, cut it down.
Lk 13:10And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.
Lk 13:11And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent double and could not stand erect at all.
Lk 13:12And Jesus, seeing her, called her to Him and said to her, Woman, you are released from your infirmity.
Lk 13:13And He laid His hands on her, and instantly she was made erect and began to glorify God.
Lk 13:14But the ruler of the synagogue, being indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, answered and said to the crowd, There are six days in which man should work; therefore, come on them and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.
Lk 13:15But the Lord answered him and said, Hypocrites! Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away and water it?
Lk 13:16And this woman, being a daughter of Abraham whom Satan has bound, behold, for eighteen years, should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day?
Lk 13:17And when He said these things, all those opposing Him were put to shame, and all the crowd rejoiced over all the glorious things that were being done by Him.
Lk 13:18He said therefore, What is the kingdom of God like, and to what shall I liken it?
Lk 13:19It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his own garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of heaven roosted in its branches.
Lk 13:20And again He said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?
Lk 13:21It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened.
Lk 13:22And He journeyed throughout the cities and villages, teaching and making His way toward Jerusalem.
Lk 13:23And someone said to Him, Lord, are there only a few who are being saved?
Lk 13:24And He said to them, Struggle to enter through the narrow door, because many, I tell you, will seek to enter, yet will not be able.
Lk 13:25Once the Master of the house has risen and shuts the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock on the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then He will answer and say to you, I do not know you, nor where you are from.
Lk 13:26Then you will begin to say, We ate in Your presence and drank, and You taught in our streets.
Lk 13:27And He will say, I tell you, I do not know where you are from. Go away from Me, all you workers of unrighteousness.
Lk 13:28There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth there when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you being cast outside.
Lk 13:29And they will come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and will recline at table in the kingdom of God.
Lk 13:30And behold, there are some last who will be first, and there are some first who will be last.
Lk 13:31In the same hour some Pharisees came up, saying to Him, Get out and go from here, for Herod wants to kill you.
Lk 13:32And He said to them, Go and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out demons and accomplish healings today and tomorrow, and on the third day I am perfected.
Lk 13:33However, I must journey today and tomorrow and on the following day because it is not acceptable for a prophet to perish outside of Jerusalem.
Lk 13:34Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How often I desired to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her own brood under her wings, and you would not!
Lk 13:35Behold, your house is left to you. And I say to you, You shall by no means see Me until the time comes when you say, Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!
Lk 14:1And as He went into the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a Sabbath to eat bread, they were watching Him closely.
Lk 14:2And behold, there was before Him a certain man suffering from dropsy.
Lk 14:3And Jesus answered and spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not?
Lk 14:4But they were quiet. And He took hold of him and healed him and sent him away.
Lk 14:5And He said to them, Which of you having a donkey or an ox that falls into a well will not immediately pull it out on the Sabbath day?
Lk 14:6And they were not able to reply to these things.
Lk 14:7And He told a parable to those who had been invited, when He noticed how they were choosing the places of honor, saying to them,
Lk 14:8When you are invited by anyone to a wedding feast, do not recline in the place of honor, lest someone more honorable than you may have been invited by him,
Lk 14:9And he who invited you and him come and say to you, Give this one that place; and then you begin with shame to occupy the last place.
Lk 14:10But when you are invited, go and recline in the last place, so that when the one who has invited you comes, he may say to you, Friend, come up higher. Then you will have glory before all those reclining with you.
Lk 14:11For everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted.
Lk 14:12And He said also to the one who had invited Him, When you make a morning meal or a dinner, do not call your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and it become a repayment to you.
Lk 14:13But when you give a reception, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind,
Lk 14:14And you will be blessed, because they do not have anything with which to repay you; for it will be repaid to you in the resurrection of the righteous.
Lk 14:15And one of those reclining at table with Him, hearing these things, said to Him, Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.
Lk 14:16And He said to him, A certain man was making a great dinner and invited many;
Lk 14:17And he sent his slave at the dinner hour to say to those who had been invited, Come, for all things are now ready.
Lk 14:18And they all with one consent began to make excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a piece of land, and I need to go out and see it. I ask you, have me excused.
Lk 14:19And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to prove them. I ask you, have me excused.
Lk 14:20And another said, I have married a wife, and because of this I cannot come.
Lk 14:21And the slave came up and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and told his slave, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and crippled and blind and lame.
Lk 14:22And the slave said, Master, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.
Lk 14:23And the master said to the slave, Go out into the roads and hedges and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled.
Lk 14:24For I tell you that none of those men who were invited shall taste of my dinner.
Lk 14:25And there were great crowds going along with Him, and He turned and said to them,
Lk 14:26If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, and moreover, even his own soul-life, he cannot be My disciple.
Lk 14:27Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after Me cannot be My disciple.
Lk 14:28For which of you, wanting to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
Lk 14:29Lest perhaps, once he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all those looking on will begin to mock him,
Lk 14:30Saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish.
Lk 14:31Or what king, going to engage another king in war, will not first sit down and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet the one coming against him with twenty thousand?
Lk 14:32Otherwise, while he is yet at a distance, he sends an envoy and asks for the terms of peace.
Lk 14:33In the same way therefore everyone of you who does not forsake all his own possessions cannot be My disciple.
Lk 14:34Therefore salt is good; but if even the salt becomes tasteless, with what will its saltiness be restored?
Lk 14:35It is fit neither for the land nor for the manure pile; they will throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Lk 15:1Now all the tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to Him to hear Him.
Lk 15:2And both the Pharisees and the scribes murmured among themselves, saying, This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.
Lk 15:3And He told them this parable, saying,
Lk 15:4Which man of you, who has a hundred sheep and has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the one which is lost until he finds it?
Lk 15:5And when he finds it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
Lk 15:6And when he comes into his house, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.
Lk 15:7I tell you that in the same way there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner repenting than over ninety-nine righteous persons who have no need of repentance.
Lk 15:8Or what woman having ten silver coins, if she loses one silver coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek carefully until she finds it?
Lk 15:9And when she finds it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin which I lost.
Lk 15:10In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner repenting.
Lk 15:11And He said, A certain man had two sons.
Lk 15:12And the younger of them said to the father, Father, give me the share of the estate that falls to me. And he distributed to them his living.
Lk 15:13And not many days after, the younger son, having gathered everything together, went abroad to a distant country and there squandered his estate by living dissolutely.
Lk 15:14And when he had spent all, a severe famine occurred throughout that country, and he began to be in want.
Lk 15:15And he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed hogs.
Lk 15:16And he longed to be satisfied with the carob pods which the hogs were eating, and no one gave him anything.
Lk 15:17But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father’s hired servants abound in bread, but I am perishing here in famine!
Lk 15:18I will rise up and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
Lk 15:19I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your hired servants.
Lk 15:20And he rose up and came to his own father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was moved with compassion, and he ran and fell on his neck and kissed him affectionately.
Lk 15:21And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.
Lk 15:22But the father said to his slaves, Bring out quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet.
Lk 15:23And bring the fattened calf; slaughter it, and let us eat and be merry,
Lk 15:24Because this son of mine was dead and lives again; he was lost and has been found. And they began to be merry.
Lk 15:25Now his older son was in the field. And as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing,
Lk 15:26And calling to him one of the servants, he inquired what these things might be.
Lk 15:27And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has slaughtered the fattened calf because he has received him back healthy.
Lk 15:28But he became angry and was not willing to enter. And his father came out and entreated him.
Lk 15:29But he answered and said to his father, Behold, so many years I have been slaving for you and have never neglected a command of yours, and you have never given me a goat that I might be merry with my friends;
Lk 15:30But when this son of yours came, who devoured your living with harlots, you slaughtered for him the fattened calf.
Lk 15:31And he said to him, Child, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
Lk 15:32But we had to be merry and rejoice, because this brother of yours was dead and has come to life, and he was lost and has been found.
Lk 16:1And He said also to the disciples, There was a certain rich man who had a steward, and this one was accused to him of squandering his possessions.
Lk 16:2And he called him and said to him, What is this I hear concerning you? Render the account of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward.
Lk 16:3And the steward said within himself, What shall I do, because my master is taking the stewardship away from me? I am not strong enough to dig; I am ashamed to beg.
Lk 16:4I know what I will do so that when I am removed from the stewardship they may receive me into their own houses.
Lk 16:5And when he had called to him each one of his master’s debtors, he said to the first, How much do you owe my master?
Lk 16:6And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said to him, Take your bill and sit down quickly and write fifty.
Lk 16:7Then to another he said, And you, how much do you owe? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He said to him, Take your bill and write eighty.
Lk 16:8And the master praised the unrighteous steward because he had acted prudently; for the sons of this age are more prudent in their dealings with their own generation than the sons of light.
Lk 16:9And I say to you, Make friends for yourselves by means of the mammon of unrighteousness, so that when it fails, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles.
Lk 16:10He who is faithful in the least is faithful also in much; and he who is unrighteous in the least is unrighteous also in much.
Lk 16:11If therefore you have not become faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust to you what is true?
Lk 16:12And if you have not become faithful in that which belongs to another, who will give to you that which is your own?
Lk 16:13No household servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.
Lk 16:14And the Pharisees, being lovers of money, heard all these things and were sneering at Him.
Lk 16:15And He said to them, You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts; for that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
Lk 16:16The law and the prophets were until John; from that time the kingdom of God is proclaimed as the gospel, and everyone forces his way into it.
Lk 16:17But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one serif of the law to fail.
Lk 16:18Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman who is divorced from her husband commits adultery.
Lk 16:19Now there was a certain rich man, and he clothed himself in purple and fine linen, making merry every day in splendor.
Lk 16:20And a certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate, covered with sores
Lk 16:21And longing to be satisfied with the things falling from the rich man’s table; moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
Lk 16:22And the beggar died, and he was carried away by the angels into Abraham’s bosom; and the rich man also died and was buried.
Lk 16:23And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham from afar and Lazarus in his bosom.
Lk 16:24And he called out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, because I am in anguish in this flame.
Lk 16:25But Abraham said, Child, remember that in your lifetime you fully received your good things, and Lazarus likewise bad things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.
Lk 16:26And besides all these things, between us and you a great chasm is fixed, so that those wanting to pass from here to you cannot, neither from there to us may any cross over.
Lk 16:27And he said, Then I ask you, Father, to send him to the house of my father —
Lk 16:28For I have five brothers — so that he may solemnly testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment.
Lk 16:29But Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
Lk 16:30But he said, No, Father Abraham; but if someone risen from the dead would go to them, they will repent.
Lk 16:31But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if someone rises from the dead.
Lk 17:1And He said to His disciples, It is impossible for causes of stumbling not to come, but woe to him through whom they come.
Lk 17:2It is more profitable for him if a millstone is put around his neck and he is hurled into the sea than to stumble one of these little ones.
Lk 17:3Take heed to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
Lk 17:4And if he sins against you seven times in a day and turns again to you seven times, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him.
Lk 17:5And the apostles said to the Lord, Increase our faith.
Lk 17:6But the Lord said, If you have faith like a mustard seed, you would have said to this sycamine tree, Be uprooted and be planted in the sea; and it would have obeyed you.
Lk 17:7But which of you, having a slave who is plowing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, Come immediately and recline at table?
Lk 17:8Will he not rather say to him, Prepare something that I may dine, and gird yourself and serve me until I eat and drink; and after that you will eat and drink?
Lk 17:9He does not thank the slave because he did the things which were ordered, does he?
Lk 17:10So also you, when you do all the things which are ordered you, say, We are unprofitable slaves; we have done what we ought to have done.
Lk 17:11And as He was going to Jerusalem, He passed between Samaria and Galilee.
Lk 17:12And as He entered into a certain village, ten leprous men, who stood at a distance, met Him.
Lk 17:13And they raised their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!
Lk 17:14And when He saw them, He said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed.
Lk 17:15And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned, glorifying God with a loud voice;
Lk 17:16And he fell on his face at His feet, thanking Him. And he was a Samaritan.
Lk 17:17And Jesus answered and said, Were not the ten cleansed? But the nine, where are they?
Lk 17:18Were none found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner?
Lk 17:19And He said to him, Rise up and go; your faith has healed you.
Lk 17:20And when He was questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation;
Lk 17:21Nor will they say, Behold, here it is! or, There! For behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.
Lk 17:22And He said to the disciples, The days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
Lk 17:23And they will say to you, Behold, there! Behold, here! Do not go away, nor run after them.
Lk 17:24For just as lightning flashing from one end of heaven shines to the other end of heaven, so will the Son of Man be in His day.
Lk 17:25But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
Lk 17:26And even as it happened in the days of Noah, so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man:
Lk 17:27They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage, until the day in which Noah entered into the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all.
Lk 17:28Likewise, even as it happened in the days of Lot: they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building;
Lk 17:29But on the day in which Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
Lk 17:30It will be in the same way on the day in which the Son of Man is revealed.
Lk 17:31In that day, he who will be on the housetop and his goods in the house, let him not come down to take them away; and he who is in the field, likewise, let him not turn back to the things behind.
Lk 17:32Remember Lot’s wife.
Lk 17:33Whoever seeks to preserve his soul-life will lose it, and whoever loses it will preserve it alive.
Lk 17:34I tell you, In that night there will be two on one bed; the one will be taken and the other will be left.
Lk 17:35There will be two women grinding together; the one will be taken but the other will be left.
Lk 17:36Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Lk 17:37And they answered and said to Him, Where, Lord? And He said to them, Where the body is, there also will the vultures be gathered together.
Lk 18:1And He told them a parable to the end that they ought always to pray and not lose heart,
Lk 18:2Saying, There was a certain judge in a certain city who did not fear God and did not regard man.
Lk 18:3And there was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him, saying, Avenge me of my opponent.
Lk 18:4And for a time he would not; but afterward he said within himself, Even though I do not fear God nor regard man,
Lk 18:5Yet because this widow causes me trouble, I will avenge her, lest by continually coming she wear me out.
Lk 18:6And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says.
Lk 18:7And will not God by all means carry out the avenging of His chosen ones, who cry to Him day and night, though He is long-suffering over them?
Lk 18:8I tell you that He will carry out their avenging quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will He find faith on the earth?
Lk 18:9And He told this parable also to certain ones who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised the rest:
Lk 18:10Two men went up to the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
Lk 18:11The Pharisee stood and prayed these things to himself: God, I thank You that I am not like the rest of men — extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
Lk 18:12I fast twice a week; I give a tenth of all that I get.
Lk 18:13But the tax collector, standing at a distance, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be propitiated to me, the sinner!
Lk 18:14I tell you, This man went down to his house justified rather than that one; for everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, but he who humbles himself shall be exalted.
Lk 18:15And they were bringing to Him also their babies that He might touch them. But when the disciples saw this they rebuked them.
Lk 18:16But Jesus called them to Him, saying, Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
Lk 18:17Truly I say to you, Whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child shall by no means enter into it.
Lk 18:18And a certain ruler questioned Him, saying, Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Lk 18:19But Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One — God.
Lk 18:20You know the commandments: “Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and mother.”
Lk 18:21And he said, All these things I have kept from my youth.
Lk 18:22And hearing this, Jesus said to him, Still you lack one thing: all that you have, sell and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in the heavens; and come, follow Me.
Lk 18:23But when he heard these things, he became very sorrowful, for he was exceedingly rich.
Lk 18:24And Jesus, seeing that he became very sorrowful, said, How difficult it is for those who have riches to go into the kingdom of God.
Lk 18:25For it is easier for a camel to enter through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Lk 18:26And those who heard said, Then who can be saved?
Lk 18:27But He said, The things that are impossible with men are possible with God.
Lk 18:28And Peter said, Behold, we have left our own things and have followed You.
Lk 18:29And He said to them, Truly I say to you that there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
Lk 18:30Who shall not by all means receive back many times as much in this time, and in the coming age, eternal life.
Lk 18:31And taking the twelve aside, He said to them, Behold we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things which have been written through the prophets regarding the Son of Man will be accomplished,
Lk 18:32For He will be delivered up to the Gentiles and will be mocked and outrageously treated and spat upon;
Lk 18:33And when they have scourged Him, they will kill Him; and on the third day He will rise.
Lk 18:34And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, and they did not know what was being said.
Lk 18:35And as He drew near to Jericho, a certain blind man was sitting by the road, begging.
Lk 18:36And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this might be.
Lk 18:37And they told him that Jesus the Nazarene was passing by.
Lk 18:38And he shouted, saying, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
Lk 18:39And those going before rebuked him so that he would be silent, but he cried out much more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
Lk 18:40And Jesus, standing still, commanded that he be led to Him. And when he drew near, He questioned him,
Lk 18:41What do you want Me to do for you? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight!
Lk 18:42And Jesus said to him, Receive your sight; your faith has healed you.
Lk 18:43And instantly he received his sight and followed Him, glorifying God. And all the people, seeing it, gave praise to God.
Lk 19:1And He entered and was passing through Jericho.
Lk 19:2And behold, there was a man whose name was called Zaccheus; and he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich.
Lk 19:3And he was seeking to see Jesus, who He was, and could not because of the crowd, for he was small in stature.
Lk 19:4And he ran on ahead and climbed up in a sycamore tree in order to see Him, for He was about to pass through that way.
Lk 19:5And as He came to the place, Jesus looked up and said to him, Zaccheus, hurry and come down, for today I must stay in your house.
Lk 19:6And he hurried and came down, and received Him, rejoicing.
Lk 19:7And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, He has gone in to lodge with a sinful man.
Lk 19:8And Zaccheus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, the half of my possessions, Lord, I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore four times as much.
Lk 19:9And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham.
Lk 19:10For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost.
Lk 19:11And as they were listening to these things, He spoke further a parable, because He was near Jerusalem and they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately.
Lk 19:12He said therefore, A certain man of noble birth went to a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return.
Lk 19:13And he called ten of his own slaves and gave them ten minas, and he said to them, Do business until I come.
Lk 19:14But his citizens hated him and sent an envoy after him, saying, We do not want this man to reign over us.
Lk 19:15And when he came back, having received the kingdom, he commanded that those slaves to whom he had given the money should be called to him so that he might know what they had gained by doing business.
Lk 19:16And the first appeared, saying, Master, your mina has gained ten minas.
Lk 19:17And he said to him, Well done, good slave. Because you have become faithful in the least, have authority over ten cities.
Lk 19:18And the second came, saying, Your mina, master, has made five minas.
Lk 19:19And he said to this one as well, And you, be over five cities.
Lk 19:20And the other came, saying, Master, behold your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief;
Lk 19:21For I was afraid of you, because you are a harsh man: you withdraw what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow.
Lk 19:22He said to him, Out of your mouth I will judge you, wicked slave. You knew that I am a harsh man, withdrawing what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow.
Lk 19:23Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and when I came, I would have collected it with interest?
Lk 19:24And to those standing by he said, Take the mina away from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minas.
Lk 19:25And they said to him, Master, he has ten minas.
Lk 19:26I tell you that to everyone who has, more shall be given, but from him who does not have, even that which he has shall be taken away.
Lk 19:27However, these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them before me.
Lk 19:28And having said these things, He went on before them, going up to Jerusalem.
Lk 19:29And as He drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, near the mount which is called Olivet, He sent two of the disciples,
Lk 19:30Saying, Go into the village opposite you, in which, as you are entering, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has ever yet sat; untie it and lead it here.
Lk 19:31And if anyone asks you, Why are you untying it? thus shall you say, Because the Lord has need of it.
Lk 19:32And those who were sent went away and found it even as He had told them.
Lk 19:33And as they were untying the colt, its masters said to them, Why are you untying the colt?
Lk 19:34And they said, Because the Lord has need of it.
Lk 19:35And they brought it to Jesus. And when they had thrown their garments on the colt, they put Jesus on it.
Lk 19:36And as He went, they spread their own garments in the road.
Lk 19:37And as He was already drawing near to the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the works of power which they had seen,
Lk 19:38Saying, Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!
Lk 19:39And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to Him, Teacher, rebuke Your disciples.
Lk 19:40And He answered and said, I tell you, If these shall be silent, the stones will cry out.
Lk 19:41And as He drew near, He saw the city and wept over it,
Lk 19:42Saying, If you knew in this day, even you, the things that are for your peace! But now they have been hidden from your eyes.
Lk 19:43For the days will come upon you when your enemies will throw up a rampart before you, and will encircle you, and will press you in on every side,
Lk 19:44And they will level you to the ground and your children within you, and they will not leave a stone upon a stone in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation.
Lk 19:45And He entered into the temple and began to cast out those who were selling,
Lk 19:46Saying to them, It is written, “And My house shall be a house of prayer,” but you have made it a den of robbers.
Lk 19:47And He taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the leaders of the people sought to destroy Him;
Lk 19:48Yet they could not find anything that they might do, for all the people were hanging upon Him, listening.
Lk 20:1And on one of the days, as He was teaching the people in the temple and announcing the good news, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came upon Him,
Lk 20:2And spoke, saying to Him, Tell us by what authority You do these things, or who is the one who gave You this authority?
Lk 20:3And He answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, and you tell Me:
Lk 20:4The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?
Lk 20:5And they reasoned together among themselves, saying, If we say, From heaven, He will say, Why did you not believe him?
Lk 20:6But if we say, From men, all the people will stone us to death, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet.
Lk 20:7And they answered that they did not know where it was from.
Lk 20:8And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Lk 20:9And He began to speak to the people this parable: A certain man planted a vineyard and leased it out to vinedressers and went abroad for a considerable time.
Lk 20:10And at the proper time he sent a slave to the vinedressers so that they might give him some of the fruit of the vineyard; but the vinedressers beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Lk 20:11And he went on to send another slave, but they beat that one also, and dishonored him, and sent him away empty-handed.
Lk 20:12And he went on to send a third, but that one also they wounded and threw out.
Lk 20:13And the master of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my son, the beloved; they will probably respect this one.
Lk 20:14But when the vinedressers saw him, they reasoned with one another, saying, This is the heir; let us kill him that the inheritance may become ours.
Lk 20:15And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the master of the vineyard do to them?
Lk 20:16He will come and destroy these vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others. And when they heard this, they said, May it never happen!
Lk 20:17But He looked at them, and said, What then is this that is written, “The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner”?
Lk 20:18Everyone who falls on that stone shall be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it shall crush him to powder and scatter him like chaff.
Lk 20:19And the scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on Him in that hour; yet they feared the people, for they perceived that it was with them in view that He spoke this parable.
Lk 20:20And they watched Him closely and sent spies who feigned themselves to be righteous, in order that they might lay hold on some word of His, so as to deliver Him up to the rule and authority of the governor.
Lk 20:21And they questioned Him, saying, Teacher, we know that You speak and teach correctly, and do not accept man’s person, but teach the way of God in truth.
Lk 20:22Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?
Lk 20:23But He perceived their craftiness and said to them,
Lk 20:24Show Me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have? And they said, Caesar’s.
Lk 20:25And He said to them, Therefore render the things that are Caesar’s to Caesar, and the things that are God’s to God.
Lk 20:26And they were not able to lay hold of a saying of His in the presence of the people; and marveling at His answer, they kept silent.
Lk 20:27And some of the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Him and questioned Him,
Lk 20:28Saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us, If anyone’s brother has a wife and dies, and this one is childless, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed to his brother.
Lk 20:29There were then seven brothers. And the first took a wife and died childless;
Lk 20:30And the second;
Lk 20:31And the third took her; and similarly the seven also did not leave children and died.
Lk 20:32Finally the woman also died.
Lk 20:33In the resurrection, therefore, which one’s wife does the woman become? For the seven had her as wife.
Lk 20:34And Jesus said to them, The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage,
Lk 20:35But those who are counted worthy to obtain that age and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage;
Lk 20:36For neither can they die anymore, for they are equal to angels, and they are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
Lk 20:37But that the dead are raised, even Moses disclosed in the section concerning the thornbush, when he calls the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
Lk 20:38Now He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for to Him all men are living.
Lk 20:39And some of the scribes answered and said, Teacher, You have spoken well.
Lk 20:40For they no longer dared to question Him about anything.
Lk 20:41And He said to them, How is it that they say that the Christ is David’s son?
Lk 20:42For David himself says in the book of Psalms, “The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand,
Lk 20:43Until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.”
Lk 20:44David therefore calls Him Lord, and how is He his son?
Lk 20:45And as all the people were listening, He said to His disciples,
Lk 20:46Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at the dinners,
Lk 20:47Who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater judgment.
Lk 21:1And He looked up and saw the rich casting their gifts into the treasury.
Lk 21:2And He saw a certain impoverished widow casting there two lepta.
Lk 21:3And He said, Truly I tell you that this poor widow has cast in more than all of them,
Lk 21:4For all these out of their surplus have cast in something into the gifts, but she out of her lack has cast in all the living that she had.
Lk 21:5And as some were speaking about the temple, that it was adorned with beautiful stones and consecrated offerings, He said,
Lk 21:6As for these things which you are looking at, the days will come in which there will not be left a stone upon a stone which will not be thrown down.
Lk 21:7And they questioned Him, saying, Teacher, when therefore will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?
Lk 21:8And He said, See that you are not led astray, for many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ! and, The time has drawn near! Do not go after them.
Lk 21:9And when you hear of wars and revolutions, do not be terrified, for these things must take place first; but the end does not come immediately.
Lk 21:10Then He said to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
Lk 21:11And there will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
Lk 21:12But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for the sake of My name.
Lk 21:13It will turn out to you for a testimony.
Lk 21:14Settle it therefore in your hearts not to take thought beforehand how to reply in defense,
Lk 21:15For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all those opposing you will not be able to resist or refute.
Lk 21:16And you will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death.
Lk 21:17And you will be hated by all because of My name,
Lk 21:18Yet a hair of your head shall by no means perish.
Lk 21:19In your endurance you will possess your souls.
Lk 21:20But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that her desolation has drawn near.
Lk 21:21Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those in her midst get out, and let not those in the country enter into her,
Lk 21:22Because these are days of vengeance, that all the things written may be fulfilled.
Lk 21:23Woe to those who are pregnant and to those nursing babies in those days, for there will be great distress upon the land and wrath to this people.
Lk 21:24And they will fall by the edge of the sword and will be led captive into all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Lk 21:25And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars, and upon the earth anguish of nations in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the billows,
Lk 21:26Men fainting from fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Lk 21:27And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
Lk 21:28And when these things begin to happen, stand erect and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.
Lk 21:29And He told them a parable: Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
Lk 21:30As soon as they sprout leaves, you see it and know of yourselves that the summer is already near.
Lk 21:31So also you, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Lk 21:32Truly I tell you that this generation shall by no means pass away until all things happen.
Lk 21:33Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away.
Lk 21:34But take heed to yourselves lest perhaps your hearts be weighed down with debauchery and drunkenness and the anxieties of life, and that day come upon you suddenly as a snare.
Lk 21:35For it will come in upon all those dwelling on the face of all the earth.
Lk 21:36But be watchful at every time, beseeching that you would prevail to escape all these things which are about to happen and stand before the Son of Man.
Lk 21:37Now during the day He was in the temple teaching, but during the night He went out and stayed on the mountain called Olivet.
Lk 21:38And all the people would come early in the morning to Him in the temple to hear Him.
Lk 22:1Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, was drawing near.
Lk 22:2And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking a way to do away with Him, for they feared the people.
Lk 22:3And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot and was of the number of the twelve.
Lk 22:4And he went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers as to how he might deliver Him up to them.
Lk 22:5And they rejoiced and promised to give him money.
Lk 22:6And he consented and sought opportunity to deliver Him up to them apart from the crowd.
Lk 22:7And the day of Unleavened Bread came, on which the passover had to be sacrificed.
Lk 22:8And He sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare the passover for us, so that we may eat it.
Lk 22:9And they said to Him, Where do You want us to prepare it?
Lk 22:10And He told them, Behold, as you are entering into the city, a man carrying an earthen jar of water will meet you. Follow him into the house which he enters.
Lk 22:11And you shall say to the master of the house, The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
Lk 22:12And that one will show you a large upper room furnished; prepare there.
Lk 22:13And they left and found it even as He had told them, and they prepared the passover.
Lk 22:14And when the hour came, He reclined at table, and the apostles with Him.
Lk 22:15And He said to them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer,
Lk 22:16For I tell you that I shall by no means eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
Lk 22:17And He received a cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves;
Lk 22:18For I tell you, I shall by no means drink from now on of the product of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
Lk 22:19And He took a loaf and gave thanks, and He broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is My body which is being given for you; do this in remembrance of Me.
Lk 22:20And similarly the cup after they had dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant established in My blood, which is being poured out for you.
Lk 22:21But behold, the hand of the one betraying Me is with Me at the table.
Lk 22:22For the Son of Man is going according to what has been determined, but woe to that man through whom He is betrayed!
Lk 22:23And they began to discuss among themselves who then of them it was who was about to do this.
Lk 22:24And a contention also occurred among them as to which of them seemed to be greatest.
Lk 22:25And He said to them, The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who have authority over them are called benefactors.
Lk 22:26But you shall not be so; but let the greatest among you become like the youngest, and the one who leads like the one who serves.
Lk 22:27For who is greater, the one who reclines at table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am in your midst as the one who serves.
Lk 22:28But you are those who have remained with Me throughout My trials.
Lk 22:29And I appoint to you, even as My Father has appointed to Me, a kingdom,
Lk 22:30That you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom; and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Lk 22:31Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has asked to have you all to sift you as wheat.
Lk 22:32But I have made petition concerning you that your faith would not fail; and you, once you have turned again, establish your brothers.
Lk 22:33And he said to Him, Lord, I am ready to go with You both to prison and to death.
Lk 22:34But He said, I tell you, Peter, a rooster will not crow today until you deny three times that you know Me.
Lk 22:35And He said to them, When I sent you without purse and bag and sandals, you did not lack anything, did you? And they said, Nothing.
Lk 22:36And He said to them, But now, let him who has a purse take it, likewise also a bag; and he who has no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one.
Lk 22:37For I tell you that this which is written must be accomplished in Me, “And He was counted with the lawless.” For indeed that which concerns Me has its fulfillment.
Lk 22:38And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And He said to them, It is enough.
Lk 22:39And He came out and went according to His custom to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed Him.
Lk 22:40And when He came to the place, He said to them, Pray that you do not enter into temptation.
Lk 22:41And He withdrew from them about a stone’s throw, and He knelt down and prayed,
Lk 22:42Saying, Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from Me; yet, not My will, but Yours be done.
Lk 22:43And an angel from heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him.
Lk 22:44And being in agony He prayed more earnestly, and His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down upon the ground.
Lk 22:45And when He rose up from prayer and came to the disciples, He found them sleeping from sorrow,
Lk 22:46And He said to them, Why are you sleeping? Rise up and pray that you may not enter into temptation.
Lk 22:47While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came, and he who is called Judas, one of the twelve, was going before them and drew near to Jesus to kiss Him.
Lk 22:48But Jesus said to him, Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?
Lk 22:49And those around Him, seeing what would happen, said, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
Lk 22:50And a certain one of them struck the slave of the high priest and took off his right ear.
Lk 22:51But Jesus answered and said, Let them go this far. And touching his ear, He healed him.
Lk 22:52And Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders who had come up against Him, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs?
Lk 22:53While I was with you day by day in the temple, you did not stretch out your hands against Me. But this is your hour and the authority of darkness.
Lk 22:54And having arrested Him, they led Him away, and brought Him into the house of the high priest. But Peter followed at a distance.
Lk 22:55And when they had lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat among them.
Lk 22:56And a certain servant girl, seeing him seated in the light of the fire, looked intently at him and said, This man was with Him too.
Lk 22:57But he denied it, saying, I do not know Him, woman.
Lk 22:58And after a short time, another person, seeing him, said, You also are one of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not!
Lk 22:59And after about one hour had passed, another one insisted, saying, Surely this man was also with Him, for he is also a Galilean.
Lk 22:60But Peter said, Man, I do not know what you are saying. And instantly, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed.
Lk 22:61And the Lord turned and looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had said to him, Before a rooster crows today, you will deny Me three times.
Lk 22:62And he went outside and wept bitterly.
Lk 22:63And the men who were holding Him mocked Him and beat Him.
Lk 22:64And they blindfolded Him and questioned Him, saying, Prophesy! Who is the one who hit You?
Lk 22:65And they said many other things against Him, blaspheming.
Lk 22:66And when it became day, the assembly of the elders of the people, both chief priests and scribes, were gathered together, and they led Him away to their Sanhedrin, saying,
Lk 22:67If You are the Christ, tell us. But He said to them, If I tell you, you shall by no means believe;
Lk 22:68And if I ask you, you shall by no means answer.
Lk 22:69But from now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.
Lk 22:70And they all said, Are You then the Son of God? And He said to them, You say rightly that I am.
Lk 22:71And they said, What further need do we have of testimony? For we have heard it ourselves from His mouth.
Lk 23:1And the entire multitude of them rose up and led Him before Pilate.
Lk 23:2And they began to accuse Him, saying, We found this man perverting our nation and forbidding people to pay taxes to Caesar, and saying that He Himself is Christ, a King.
Lk 23:3And Pilate asked Him, saying, Are You the King of the Jews? And answering him, He said, It is as you say.
Lk 23:4And Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, I find no fault in this man.
Lk 23:5But they were vehement, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout the whole of Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this place.
Lk 23:6And when Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
Lk 23:7And when he realized that He was of Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent Him up to Herod, who also himself was in Jerusalem in those days.
Lk 23:8And when Herod saw Jesus, he rejoiced greatly, for he had wanted to see Him for a considerable time, because he had heard about Him, and was hoping to see some sign done by Him.
Lk 23:9And he questioned Him with many words, but He answered him nothing.
Lk 23:10And the chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing Him.
Lk 23:11And Herod with his soldiers, having despised Him and mocked Him, threw around Him splendid clothing and sent Him back to Pilate.
Lk 23:12And both Herod and Pilate became friends with one another on that very day, for they had previously been at enmity toward each other.
Lk 23:13And Pilate, calling together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Lk 23:14Said to them, You have brought this man to me as one who turns the people away, and behold, I have examined Him before you and found no fault in this man regarding the accusations you bring against Him.
Lk 23:15No, neither has Herod, for he sent Him back to us, and behold, nothing worthy of death has been done by Him.
Lk 23:16I will therefore discipline Him and release Him.
Lk 23:17Now he was obliged to release to them one prisoner at the feast.
Lk 23:18But they cried out all together, saying, Take this man away and release to us Barabbas.
Lk 23:19He was one who, for a certain insurrection that occurred in the city and for murder, had been thrown into the prison.
Lk 23:20But Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, addressed them again;
Lk 23:21But they continued to shout, saying, Crucify, crucify Him!
Lk 23:22But he said to them a third time, Why, what evil has this man done? I have found no cause of death in Him; I will therefore discipline Him and release Him.
Lk 23:23But they pressed him with loud voices, asking that He be crucified, and their voices prevailed.
Lk 23:24And Pilate gave sentence that their request be carried out,
Lk 23:25And he released him who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will.
Lk 23:26And as they led Him away, they laid hold of Simon, a certain Cyrenian, coming from the country, and they placed the cross upon him to carry it behind Jesus.
Lk 23:27And a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting Him followed Him.
Lk 23:28But Jesus turned to them and said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep over Me, but weep over yourselves and over your children.
Lk 23:29For behold, the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs which have not borne, and the breasts which have not nourished.
Lk 23:30Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us! and to the hills, Cover us!
Lk 23:31For if they do these things with the tree full of sap, what will happen with the one that is dry?
Lk 23:32And two others also, who were criminals, were led with Him to be executed.
Lk 23:33And when they came to the place called The Skull, there they crucified Him and the criminals, one on the right and one on the left.
Lk 23:34And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. And dividing His garments, they cast lots.
Lk 23:35And the people stood by, looking on. And the rulers also sneered, saying, He saved others; let Him save Himself if this is the Christ of God, the Chosen One!
Lk 23:36And the soldiers also mocked Him, coming to Him and offering Him vinegar,
Lk 23:37And saying, If You are the King of the Jews, save Yourself!
Lk 23:38And there was also an inscription over Him: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Lk 23:39And one of the criminals who were hanged there blasphemed Him, saying, Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!
Lk 23:40But the other, answering, rebuked him and said, Do you not even fear God, since you are in the same judgment?
Lk 23:41And we justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for what we did, but this man has done nothing amiss.
Lk 23:42And he said, Jesus, remember me when You come into Your kingdom.
Lk 23:43And He said to him, Truly I say to you, Today you shall be with Me in Paradise.
Lk 23:44And it was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour,
Lk 23:45The sun’s light failing; and the veil of the temple was split down the middle.
Lk 23:46And crying with a loud voice, Jesus said, Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit. And saying this, He expired.
Lk 23:47Now when the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this man was righteous.
Lk 23:48And all the crowds who came together at this spectacle, when they beheld the things that happened, returned, beating their breasts.
Lk 23:49And all those who knew Him, and the women who accompanied Him from Galilee, stood at a distance, observing these things.
Lk 23:50And behold, there was a man named Joseph, who was a member of the Council, and a good and righteous man
Lk 23:51(This man had not consented to their counsel and action), from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who was expecting the kingdom of God.
Lk 23:52This man came to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Lk 23:53And he took it down and wrapped it in a fine linen cloth, and laid Him in a tomb hewn in the rock, where no one had ever lain.
Lk 23:54And it was the day of preparation, and the Sabbath was coming on.
Lk 23:55And the women who had come together with Him out of Galilee followed after and beheld the tomb and how His body was laid.
Lk 23:56And they returned and prepared spices and ointment. And on the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.
Lk 24:1Now on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came to the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared.
Lk 24:2And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb;
Lk 24:3But when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
Lk 24:4And while they stood perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling clothing.
Lk 24:5And they became frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, and the men said to them, Why are you seeking the living One among the dead?
Lk 24:6He is not here but has been raised. Remember how He spoke to you while He was still in Galilee,
Lk 24:7Saying that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise up.
Lk 24:8And they remembered His words.
Lk 24:9And returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
Lk 24:10Now they were Mary the Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the rest of the women with them, who told these things to the apostles.
Lk 24:11And these words appeared to them as nonsense, and they did not believe them.
Lk 24:12But Peter rose up and ran to the tomb; and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths alone, and he went away to his own home, marveling at what had happened.
Lk 24:13And behold, two of them were going on the same day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia away from Jerusalem.
Lk 24:14And they were talking to each other concerning all these things which had occurred.
Lk 24:15And while they were talking and discussing, Jesus Himself drew near and went with them.
Lk 24:16But their eyes were kept from recognizing Him.
Lk 24:17And He said to them, What are these words which you are exchanging with one another while you are walking? And they stood still, looking sad.
Lk 24:18And one of them, Cleopas by name, answered and said to Him, Do You alone dwell as a stranger in Jerusalem and not know the things which have taken place in it in these days?
Lk 24:19And He said to them, What things? And they said to Him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a Prophet powerful in work and word before God and all the people;
Lk 24:20And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him up to the sentence of death and crucified Him.
Lk 24:21But we were hoping that He was the One who was about to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all these things, it is now going on the third day since these things took place.
Lk 24:22But moreover some women from among us amazed us. Being at the tomb early
Lk 24:23And not finding His body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that He is living.
Lk 24:24And some of those with us went to the tomb and found it even as the women also said, but they did not see Him.
Lk 24:25And He said to them, O foolish and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!
Lk 24:26Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and enter into His glory?
Lk 24:27And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, He explained to them clearly in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself.
Lk 24:28And they drew near to the village where they were going, and He acted as though He would go farther.
Lk 24:29And they constrained Him, saying, Stay with us, because it is near evening and the day is already gone by. And He went in to stay with them.
Lk 24:30And as He reclined at table with them, He took the loaf and blessed it, and having broken it, He began handing it to them.
Lk 24:31And their eyes were opened, and they recognized Him; and He disappeared from them.
Lk 24:32And they said to one another, Was not our heart burning within us while He was speaking to us on the road, while He was opening to us the Scriptures?
Lk 24:33And they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven and those with them assembled together,
Lk 24:34Saying, The Lord really has been raised and has appeared to Simon.
Lk 24:35And they related the things that occurred on the road, and how He was made known to them in the breaking of the bread.
Lk 24:36And as they were speaking these things, He Himself stood in their midst and said to them, Peace to you.
Lk 24:37But they were terrified and became frightened and thought they beheld a spirit.
Lk 24:38And He said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your heart?
Lk 24:39See My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself. Touch Me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you behold Me having.
Lk 24:40And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His feet.
Lk 24:41And while they still did not believe for joy and were marveling, He said to them, Do you have anything here to eat?
Lk 24:42And they handed Him a piece of broiled fish;
Lk 24:43And He took it and ate before them.
Lk 24:44And He said to them, These are My words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all the things written in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and Psalms concerning Me must be fulfilled.
Lk 24:45Then He opened their mind to understand the Scriptures;
Lk 24:46And He said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ would suffer and rise up from the dead on the third day,
Lk 24:47And that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in His name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
Lk 24:48You are witnesses of these things.
Lk 24:49And behold, I send forth the promise of My Father upon you; but as for you, stay in the city until you put on power from on high.
Lk 24:50And He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted up His hands and blessed them.
Lk 24:51And while He blessed them, He parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
Lk 24:52And they worshipped Him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
Lk 24:53And were continually in the temple, blessing God.
Jn 1:1In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
Jn 1:2He was in the beginning with God.
Jn 1:3All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him not one thing came into being which has come into being.
Jn 1:4In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
Jn 1:5And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
Jn 1:6There came a man sent from God, whose name was John.
Jn 1:7He came for a testimony that he might testify concerning the light, that all might believe through him.
Jn 1:8He was not the light, but came that he might testify concerning the light.
Jn 1:9This was the true light which, coming into the world, enlightens every man.
Jn 1:10He was in the world, and the world came into being through Him, yet the world did not know Him.
Jn 1:11He came to His own, yet those who were His own did not receive Him.
Jn 1:12But as many as received Him, to them He gave the authority to become children of God, to those who believe into His name,
Jn 1:13Who were begotten not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
Jn 1:14And the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us (and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only Begotten from the Father), full of grace and reality.
Jn 1:15John testified concerning Him and cried out, saying, This was He of whom I said, He who is coming after me has become ahead of me, because He was before me.
Jn 1:16For of His fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
Jn 1:17For the law was given through Moses; grace and reality came through Jesus Christ.
Jn 1:18No one has ever seen God; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has declared Him.
Jn 1:19And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you?
Jn 1:20And he confessed and did not deny, and he confessed, I am not the Christ.
Jn 1:21And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the Prophet? And he answered, No.
Jn 1:22They said then to him, Who are you, that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?
Jn 1:23He said, I am “a voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord!” as Isaiah the prophet said.
Jn 1:24And those who had been sent were of the Pharisees.
Jn 1:25And they asked him and said to him, Why then are you baptizing if you are not the Christ nor Elijah nor the Prophet?
Jn 1:26John answered them, saying, I baptize in water; but among you stands One whom you do not know,
Jn 1:27He who is coming after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.
Jn 1:28These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
Jn 1:29The next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
Jn 1:30This is He of whom I said, A man is coming after me who has become ahead of me, because He was before me.
Jn 1:31And I did not know Him, but in order that He might be manifested to Israel, for this reason I came baptizing in water.
Jn 1:32And John testified, saying, I beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and He abode upon Him.
Jn 1:33And I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize in water, He said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and abiding upon Him, this is He who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.
Jn 1:34And I have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God.
Jn 1:35Again the next day John was standing with two of his disciples,
Jn 1:36And looking at Jesus walking, he said, Behold, the Lamb of God!
Jn 1:37And the two disciples heard him speak this, and they followed Jesus.
Jn 1:38And Jesus, turning and beholding them following, said to them, What are you seeking? And they said to Him, Rabbi (which translated means Teacher), where are You staying?
Jn 1:39He said to them, Come, and you will see. They went therefore and saw where He was staying, and they stayed with Him that day; it was about the tenth hour.
Jn 1:40One of the two who heard this from John and followed Him was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
Jn 1:41He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah (which translated means Christ).
Jn 1:42He led him to Jesus. Looking at him, Jesus said, You are Simon, the son of John; you shall be called Cephas (which is interpreted, Peter).
Jn 1:43The next day He wanted to go forth into Galilee, and He found Philip. And Jesus said to him, Follow Me.
Jn 1:44Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
Jn 1:45Philip found Nathanael and said to him, We have found Him of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote, Jesus, the son of Joseph, from Nazareth.
Jn 1:46And Nathanael said to him, Can anything good be from Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see.
Jn 1:47Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him and said concerning him, Behold, truly an Israelite, in whom there is no guile!
Jn 1:48Nathanael said to Him, How do You know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, while you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
Jn 1:49Nathanael answered Him, Rabbi, You are the Son of God; You are the King of Israel.
Jn 1:50Jesus answered and said to him, Is it because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree that you believe? You shall see greater things than these.
Jn 1:51And He said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, You shall see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.
Jn 2:1And the third day a wedding took place in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
Jn 2:2And Jesus also was invited, as well as His disciples, to the wedding.
Jn 2:3And when the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, They have no wine.
Jn 2:4And Jesus said to her, Woman, what do I have in this that concerns you? My hour has not yet come.
Jn 2:5His mother said to the servants, Whatever He says to you, do.
Jn 2:6Now there were six stone waterpots lying there, according to the Jews’ rite of purification, holding two or three measures each.
Jn 2:7Jesus said to them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
Jn 2:8And He said to them, Draw some out now and take it to the master of the feast. And they took it to him.
Jn 2:9And when the master of the feast tasted the water which had become wine and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom
Jn 2:10And said to him, Every man sets out the good wine first, and when they have drunk freely, then that which is worse; you have kept the good wine until now.
Jn 2:11This beginning of signs Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee and manifested His glory, and His disciples believed into Him.
Jn 2:12After this He went down to Capernaum, He and His mother and His brothers and His disciples; and they remained there not many days.
Jn 2:13And the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Jn 2:14And He found in the temple those selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers sitting there.
Jn 2:15And having made a whip out of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, as well as the sheep and the oxen, and He poured out the money of the moneychangers and overturned their tables.
Jn 2:16And to those who were selling the doves He said, Take these things away from here; do not make My Father’s house a house of merchandise.
Jn 2:17His disciples remembered that it was written, “The zeal of Your house shall devour Me.”
Jn 2:18The Jews then answered and said to Him, What sign do You show us, seeing that You do these things?
Jn 2:19Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
Jn 2:20Then the Jews said, This temple was built in forty-six years, and You will raise it up in three days?
Jn 2:21But He spoke of the temple of His body.
Jn 2:22When therefore He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.
Jn 2:23Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed into His name when they saw the signs which He did.
Jn 2:24But Jesus Himself did not entrust Himself to them, for He knew all men,
Jn 2:25And because He did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for He Himself knew what was in man.
Jn 3:1But there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
Jn 3:2This one came to Him by night and said to Him, Rabbi, we know that You have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that You do unless God is with him.
Jn 3:3Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless one is born anew, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Jn 3:4Nicodemus said to Him, How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born, can he?
Jn 3:5Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
Jn 3:6That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Jn 3:7Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born anew.
Jn 3:8The wind blows where it wills, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it comes from and where it goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
Jn 3:9Nicodemus answered and said to Him, How can these things be?
Jn 3:10Jesus answered and said to him, You are a teacher of Israel, and you do not know these things?
Jn 3:11Truly, truly, I say to you, We speak that which we know and testify of that which we have seen, and yet you do not receive our testimony.
Jn 3:12If I told you of the things on earth and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you of the things in heaven?
Jn 3:13And no one has ascended into heaven, but He who descended out of heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven.
Jn 3:14And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
Jn 3:15That everyone who believes into Him may have eternal life.
Jn 3:16For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that everyone who believes into Him would not perish, but would have eternal life.
Jn 3:17For God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through Him.
Jn 3:18He who believes into Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has been condemned already, because he has not believed into the name of the only begotten Son of God.
Jn 3:19And this is the condemnation, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light, for their works were evil.
Jn 3:20For everyone who practices evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works be reproved.
Jn 3:21But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be manifested that they are wrought in God.
Jn 3:22After these things, Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He spent some time with them and baptized.
Jn 3:23And John also was baptizing in Aenon near Salim, because there was much water there; and people came and were baptized;
Jn 3:24For John had not yet been thrown into prison.
Jn 3:25There arose therefore a questioning on the part of John’s disciples with a Jew about purification.
Jn 3:26And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, He who was with you across the Jordan, of whom you have testified, behold, He is baptizing and all are coming to Him.
Jn 3:27John answered and said, A man cannot receive anything unless it has been given to him from heaven.
Jn 3:28You yourselves testify of me that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before Him.
Jn 3:29He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices with joy because of the bridegroom’s voice. This joy of mine therefore is made full.
Jn 3:30He must increase, but I must decrease.
Jn 3:31He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth is of the earth and speaks out of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
Jn 3:32What He has seen and heard, of this He testifies, and no one receives His testimony.
Jn 3:33He who receives His testimony has sealed that God is true.
Jn 3:34For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for He gives the Spirit not by measure.
Jn 3:35The Father loves the Son and has given all into His hand.
Jn 3:36He who believes into the Son has eternal life; but he who disobeys the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides upon him.
Jn 4:1When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
Jn 4:2(Although Jesus Himself did not baptize, but rather His disciples),
Jn 4:3He left Judea and went away again into Galilee.
Jn 4:4And He had to pass through Samaria.
Jn 4:5So He came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the piece of land that Jacob gave to Joseph his son;
Jn 4:6And Jacob’s well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied from the journey, sat thus by the well; it was about the sixth hour.
Jn 4:7There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give Me something to drink.
Jn 4:8For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.
Jn 4:9The Samaritan woman then said to Him, How is it that You, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
Jn 4:10Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give Me a drink, you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water.
Jn 4:11The woman said to Him, Sir, You have no bucket, and the well is deep; where then do You get this living water?
Jn 4:12Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank of it himself, as well as his sons and his cattle?
Jn 4:13Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water shall thirst again,
Jn 4:14But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall by no means thirst forever; but the water that I will give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into eternal life.
Jn 4:15The woman said to Him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not thirst nor come here to draw.
Jn 4:16He said to her, Go, call your husband and come here.
Jn 4:17The woman answered and said, I do not have a husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I do not have a husband,
Jn 4:18For you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; this you have said truly.
Jn 4:19The woman said to Him, Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet.
Jn 4:20Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, yet you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men must worship.
Jn 4:21Jesus said to her, Woman, believe Me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
Jn 4:22You worship that which you do not know; we worship that which we know, for salvation is of the Jews.
Jn 4:23But an hour is coming, and it is now, when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truthfulness, for the Father also seeks such to worship Him.
Jn 4:24God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truthfulness.
Jn 4:25The woman said to Him, I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Christ); when He comes, He will declare all things to us.
Jn 4:26Jesus said to her, I, who speak to you, am He.
Jn 4:27And at this point His disciples came, and they marveled that He was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, What are You seeking? or, Why are You speaking with her?
Jn 4:28Then the woman left her waterpot and went away into the city, and said to the people,
Jn 4:29Come, see a man who told me all that I have done. Is this not the Christ?
Jn 4:30They went out of the city and came to Him.
Jn 4:31In the meantime, the disciples urged Him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
Jn 4:32But He said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about.
Jn 4:33The disciples therefore said to one another, Has anyone brought Him anything to eat?
Jn 4:34Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to finish His work.
Jn 4:35Do you not say that there are yet four months and then the harvest comes? Behold, I tell you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are already white for harvest.
Jn 4:36He who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto eternal life, in order that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
Jn 4:37For in this the saying is true, One sows and another reaps.
Jn 4:38I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.
Jn 4:39And many of the Samaritans from that city believed into Him because of the word of the woman who testified, He told me all that I have done.
Jn 4:40So when the Samaritans came to Him, they asked Him to remain with them, and He remained there two days.
Jn 4:41And many more believed because of His word.
Jn 4:42And they said to the woman, It is no longer because of your speaking that we believe, for we ourselves have heard and know that this One is truly the Savior of the world.
Jn 4:43And after the two days He went forth from there into Galilee,
Jn 4:44For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
Jn 4:45Then when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all that He did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast.
Jn 4:46He then came again to Cana of Galilee, where He had made the water wine. And there was a certain royal official, whose son was sick in Capernaum.
Jn 4:47When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and asked Him to come down and heal his son, for he was about to die.
Jn 4:48Jesus therefore said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will by no means believe.
Jn 4:49The royal official said to Him, Sir, come down before my little child dies.
Jn 4:50Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. The man believed the word which Jesus said to him and went his way.
Jn 4:51And as he was now going down, his slaves met him and said that his child was living.
Jn 4:52So he asked them the hour in which he got better. They said then to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
Jn 4:53Then the father knew that it was in that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives; and he believed, he and his whole house.
Jn 4:54Again, this second sign Jesus performed when He came out of Judea into Galilee.
Jn 5:1After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Jn 5:2Now there is in Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porticoes.
Jn 5:3In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
Jn 5:4For an angel went down from time to time in the pool and stirred up the water; the first then to step in after the stirring up of the water was made well of whatever disease he was being held by.
Jn 5:5And a certain man was there, who had been thirty-eight years in his sickness.
Jn 5:6When Jesus saw this one lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, He said to him, Do you want to get well?
Jn 5:7The sick man answered Him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up; but while I am coming, another steps down before me.
Jn 5:8Jesus said to him, Rise, take up your mat and walk.
Jn 5:9And immediately the man became well, and he took up his mat and walked. Now it was the Sabbath on that day;
Jn 5:10Therefore the Jews said to the one who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your mat.
Jn 5:11But he answered them, He who made me well, that One said to me, Take up your mat and walk.
Jn 5:12They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your mat and walk?
Jn 5:13But he who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, there being a crowd in that place.
Jn 5:14After these things Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well; sin no more so that nothing worse happens to you.
Jn 5:15The man went away and told the Jews that Jesus was the One who made him well.
Jn 5:16And because of this the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill Him, because He did these things on the Sabbath.
Jn 5:17But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I also am working.
Jn 5:18Because of this therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill Him, because He not only broke the Sabbath but also called God His own Father, making Himself equal with God.
Jn 5:19Then Jesus answered and said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, The Son can do nothing from Himself except what He sees the Father doing, for whatever that One does, these things the Son also does in like manner.
Jn 5:20For the Father loves the Son and shows Him all things that He Himself is doing; and greater works than these He will show Him that you may marvel.
Jn 5:21For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He wills.
Jn 5:22For neither does the Father judge anyone, but He has given all judgment to the Son,
Jn 5:23In order that all may honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
Jn 5:24Truly, truly, I say to you, He who hears My word and believes Him who sent Me has eternal life, and does not come into judgment but has passed out of death into life.
Jn 5:25Truly, truly, I say to you, An hour is coming, and it is now, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
Jn 5:26For just as the Father has life in Himself, so He gave to the Son to also have life in Himself;
Jn 5:27And He gave Him authority to execute judgment because He is the Son of Man.
Jn 5:28Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all in the tombs will hear His voice
Jn 5:29And will come forth: those who have done good, to the resurrection of life; and those who have practiced evil, to the resurrection of judgment.
Jn 5:30I can do nothing from Myself; as I hear, I judge, and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will but the will of Him who sent Me.
Jn 5:31If I testify concerning Myself, My testimony is not true.
Jn 5:32There is another who testifies concerning Me, and I know that the testimony which he testifies concerning Me is true.
Jn 5:33You have sent people to John, and he has testified to the truth.
Jn 5:34But it is not from man that I receive My testimony, but I say these things that you may be saved.
Jn 5:35He was the lamp that was burning and shining, and you were willing to exult for a while in his light.
Jn 5:36But I have the testimony which is greater than that of John, for the works which the Father has given Me to finish, the works themselves which I do, testify concerning Me that the Father has sent Me.
Jn 5:37And the Father who sent Me, He has testified concerning Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor have you seen His form,
Jn 5:38And you do not have His word abiding in you, for Him whom He sent, this One you do not believe.
Jn 5:39You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is these that testify concerning Me.
Jn 5:40Yet you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life.
Jn 5:41I do not receive glory from men.
Jn 5:42But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves.
Jn 5:43I have come in the name of My Father, and you do not receive Me; if another comes in his own name, you will receive him.
Jn 5:44How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that is from the only God?
Jn 5:45Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; there is one who accuses you: Moses, in whom you have set your hope.
Jn 5:46For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote concerning Me.
Jn 5:47But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?
Jn 6:1After these things Jesus went away across the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.
Jn 6:2And a great crowd followed Him, because they saw the signs which He did on those who were sick.
Jn 6:3And Jesus went up to the mountain and sat there with His disciples.
Jn 6:4Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
Jn 6:5Jesus then lifting up His eyes and seeing that a great crowd was coming toward Him, said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread that these may eat?
Jn 6:6But this He said to test him, for He Himself knew what He was about to do.
Jn 6:7Philip answered Him, Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that each one may take a little.
Jn 6:8One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, said to Him,
Jn 6:9There is a little boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what are these for so many?
Jn 6:10Jesus said, Have the people recline. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men reclined, in number about five thousand.
Jn 6:11Jesus then took the loaves, and when He had given thanks, He distributed to those who were reclining; likewise also of the fish, as much as they wanted.
Jn 6:12And when they were filled, He said to His disciples, Gather the broken pieces left over that nothing may be lost.
Jn 6:13So they gathered them and filled twelve handbaskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves which were left over among those who had eaten.
Jn 6:14The people therefore, seeing the sign which He did, said, This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world.
Jn 6:15Then Jesus, knowing that they were about to come and take Him by force to make Him King, withdrew again to the mountain, Himself alone.
Jn 6:16And when evening fell, His disciples went down to the sea,
Jn 6:17And they got into a boat and began crossing the sea to Capernaum. And it had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.
Jn 6:18And because a strong wind was blowing, the sea was churning.
Jn 6:19Then, when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they became frightened.
Jn 6:20But He said to them, It is I. Do not be afraid.
Jn 6:21Then they were willing to take Him into the boat; and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.
Jn 6:22The next day the crowd which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there had been no other small boat there except one, and that Jesus had not gotten into the boat with His disciples, but that His disciples had gone away alone.
Jn 6:23But other small boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
Jn 6:24So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor His disciples, they themselves got into the small boats and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
Jn 6:25And when they found Him on the other side of the sea, they said to Him, Rabbi, when did You get here?
Jn 6:26Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, You seek Me not because you have seen signs, but because you ate of the bread and were filled.
Jn 6:27Work not for the food which perishes, but for the food which abides unto eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you; for Him has the Father, even God, sealed.
Jn 6:28Then they said to Him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God?
Jn 6:29Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe into Him whom He has sent.
Jn 6:30They said then to Him, What sign then will You do that we may see and believe You? What work will You do?
Jn 6:31Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, “He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.”
Jn 6:32Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread out of heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread out of heaven.
Jn 6:33For the bread of God is He who comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world.
Jn 6:34They said therefore to Him, Lord, give us this bread always.
Jn 6:35Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; he who comes to Me shall by no means hunger, and he who believes into Me shall by no means ever thirst.
Jn 6:36But I have said to you that you have also seen Me, and yet you do not believe.
Jn 6:37All that the Father gives Me will come to Me, and him who comes to Me I shall by no means cast out.
Jn 6:38For I have come down from heaven not to do My own will but the will of Him who sent Me.
Jn 6:39And this is the will of Him who sent Me, that of all which He has given Me I should lose nothing but should raise it up in the last day.
Jn 6:40For this is the will of My Father, that everyone who beholds the Son and believes into Him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
Jn 6:41The Jews therefore murmured concerning Him because He said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven.
Jn 6:42And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does He now say, I have come down out of heaven?
Jn 6:43Jesus answered and said to them, Do not murmur among yourselves.
Jn 6:44No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up in the last day.
Jn 6:45It is written in the prophets, “And they shall all be taught of God.” Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to Me.
Jn 6:46Not that anyone has seen the Father, except Him who is from God, He has seen the Father.
Jn 6:47Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes has eternal life.
Jn 6:48I am the bread of life.
Jn 6:49Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
Jn 6:50This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
Jn 6:51I am the living bread which came down out of heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he shall live forever; and the bread which I will give is My flesh, given for the life of the world.
Jn 6:52The Jews then contended with one another, saying, How can this man give us His flesh to eat?
Jn 6:53Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you do not have life within yourselves.
Jn 6:54He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
Jn 6:55For My flesh is true food, and My blood is true drink.
Jn 6:56He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me and I in him.
Jn 6:57As the living Father has sent Me and I live because of the Father, so he who eats Me, he also shall live because of Me.
Jn 6:58This is the bread which came down out of heaven, not as the fathers ate and died; he who eats this bread shall live forever.
Jn 6:59He said these things in a synagogue as He taught in Capernaum.
Jn 6:60Many therefore of His disciples, when they heard this, said, This word is hard; who can hear it?
Jn 6:61But Jesus, knowing in Himself that His disciples were murmuring about this, said to them, Does this stumble you?
Jn 6:62Then what if you saw the Son of Man ascending to where He was before?
Jn 6:63It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing; the words which I have spoken to you are spirit and are life.
Jn 6:64But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who were the ones who did not believe and who was the one who would betray Him.
Jn 6:65And He said, For this reason I have told you that no one can come to Me unless it has been given to him from the Father.
Jn 6:66From that time many of His disciples went back to what they left behind and no longer walked with Him.
Jn 6:67Jesus therefore said to the twelve, Do you also want to go away?
Jn 6:68Simon Peter answered Him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life,
Jn 6:69And we have believed and have come to know that You are the Holy One of God.
Jn 6:70Jesus answered them, Was it not I who chose you, the twelve? Yet one of you is a devil.
Jn 6:71Now He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, would betray Him.
Jn 7:1And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for He would not walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him.
Jn 7:2Now the Jews’ Feast of Tabernacles was near.
Jn 7:3His brothers therefore said to Him, Depart from here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may behold Your works which You are doing;
Jn 7:4For no one does anything in secret and himself seeks to be known openly. If You do these things, manifest Yourself to the world.
Jn 7:5For not even His brothers believed into Him.
Jn 7:6Jesus therefore said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.
Jn 7:7The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me, because I testify concerning it, that its works are evil.
Jn 7:8You go up to the feast; I am not going up to this feast, because My time has not yet been fulfilled.
Jn 7:9And having said these things to them, He remained in Galilee.
Jn 7:10But when His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He Himself also went up, not openly, but as it were in secret.
Jn 7:11The Jews therefore sought Him at the feast and said, Where is He?
Jn 7:12And there was much murmuring about Him among the crowds: some said, He is a good man; but others said, No; rather He leads the crowd astray.
Jn 7:13Yet no one spoke openly about Him for fear of the Jews.
Jn 7:14But when it was now the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach.
Jn 7:15The Jews therefore marveled and said, How does this man know letters, without ever having studied?
Jn 7:16Jesus therefore answered them and said, My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me.
Jn 7:17If anyone resolves to do His will, he will know concerning the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.
Jn 7:18He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but He who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him, this One is true, and unrighteousness is not in Him.
Jn 7:19Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill Me?
Jn 7:20The crowd answered, You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill You?
Jn 7:21Jesus answered and said to them, I did one work, and you all marvel.
Jn 7:22For the same reason Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man.
Jn 7:23If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made an entire man well on the Sabbath?
Jn 7:24Do not judge according to appearance, but judge the righteous judgment.
Jn 7:25Then some of the people of Jerusalem said, Is not this the One whom they are seeking to kill?
Jn 7:26And look, He is speaking openly, and they say nothing to Him. Have the rulers, perhaps, really recognized that this is the Christ?
Jn 7:27But we know where this man is from; yet when the Christ comes, no one knows where He is from.
Jn 7:28Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, You both know Me and know where I am from; and I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me is true, whom you do not know.
Jn 7:29I know Him, because I am from Him, and He sent Me.
Jn 7:30They sought then to seize Him, yet no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
Jn 7:31But many out of the crowd believed into Him and said, Will the Christ, when He comes, do more signs than this man has done?
Jn 7:32The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent attendants to arrest Him.
Jn 7:33Jesus therefore said, I am still with you a little while, and then I am going to Him who sent Me.
Jn 7:34You will seek Me and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come.
Jn 7:35The Jews then said to one another, Where is this man about to go that we will not find Him? Is He about to go to the Jews in dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
Jn 7:36What is the word which He said, You will seek Me and will not find Me; and where I am, you cannot come?
Jn 7:37Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.
Jn 7:38He who believes into Me, as the Scripture said, out of his innermost being shall flow rivers of living water.
Jn 7:39But this He said concerning the Spirit, whom those who believed into Him were about to receive; for the Spirit was not yet, because Jesus had not yet been glorified.
Jn 7:40Some of the crowd therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is truly the Prophet.
Jn 7:41Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Does then the Christ come out of Galilee?
Jn 7:42Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes out of the seed of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?
Jn 7:43So there arose a division among the crowd because of Him.
Jn 7:44And some of them wanted to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him.
Jn 7:45The attendants therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and these said to them, Why did you not bring Him?
Jn 7:46The attendants answered, Never has a man spoken as this man has.
Jn 7:47The Pharisees then answered them, Have you also been deceived?
Jn 7:48Has any one of the rulers or Pharisees believed into Him?
Jn 7:49But this crowd which does not know the law is accursed.
Jn 7:50Nicodemus said to them (he who came to Him before, being one of them),
Jn 7:51Does our law condemn a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing?
Jn 7:52They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee.
Jn 7:53And everyone went to his own house.
Jn 8:1But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
Jn 8:2And early in the morning He came again into the temple, and all the people came to Him, and He sat down and taught them.
Jn 8:3And the scribes and Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the midst,
Jn 8:4They said to Him, Teacher, this woman has been caught committing adultery, in the very act.
Jn 8:5Now in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. What then do You say?
Jn 8:6But they said this to tempt Him, so that they might have reason to accuse Him. But Jesus stooped down and wrote with His finger on the ground.
Jn 8:7But when they persisted in questioning Him, He stood up and said to them, He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to throw a stone at her.
Jn 8:8And again He stooped down and wrote on the ground.
Jn 8:9And when they heard that, they went out one by one, beginning with the older ones. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman stood where she was, in the midst.
Jn 8:10And Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?
Jn 8:11And she said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more.
Jn 8:12Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world; he who follows Me shall by no means walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
Jn 8:13The Pharisees then said to Him, You are testifying concerning Yourself; Your testimony is not true.
Jn 8:14Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify concerning Myself, My testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
Jn 8:15You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
Jn 8:16But even if I do judge, My judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent Me.
Jn 8:17And in your law also it has been written that the testimony of two men is true:
Jn 8:18I am One who testifies concerning Myself, and the Father who sent Me testifies concerning Me.
Jn 8:19They said then to Him, Where is Your Father? Jesus answered, You know neither Me nor My Father; if you knew Me, you would know My Father also.
Jn 8:20These words He spoke in the treasury as He taught in the temple; and no one seized Him, because His hour had not yet come.
Jn 8:21He said therefore again to them, I am going away, and you will seek Me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.
Jn 8:22The Jews then said, He is not going to kill Himself, is He, for He says, Where I am going, you cannot come?
Jn 8:23And He said to them, You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
Jn 8:24Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins; for unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins.
Jn 8:25They said then to Him, Who are You? Jesus said to them, Altogether that which I also tell you.
Jn 8:26I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true, and what I have heard from Him, these things I speak to the world.
Jn 8:27They did not understand that He was speaking to them of the Father.
Jn 8:28Jesus therefore said to them, When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am, and that I do nothing from Myself, but as My Father has taught Me, I speak these things.
Jn 8:29And He who sent Me is with Me; He has not left Me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to Him.
Jn 8:30As He spoke these things, many believed into Him.
Jn 8:31Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed Him, If you abide in My word, you are truly My disciples;
Jn 8:32And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.
Jn 8:33They answered Him, We are Abraham’s seed and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that You say, You shall become free?
Jn 8:34Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin.
Jn 8:35And the slave does not abide in the house forever; the son does abide forever.
Jn 8:36If therefore the Son sets you free, you shall be free indeed.
Jn 8:37I know that you are Abraham’s seed; but you seek to kill Me because My word has no place in you.
Jn 8:38I speak the things which I have seen with My Father; so then, you also do the things which you have heard from your father.
Jn 8:39They answered and said to Him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham’s children, you would do the works of Abraham.
Jn 8:40But now you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth which I heard from God; Abraham did not do this.
Jn 8:41You do the works of your father. They then said to Him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, God.
Jn 8:42Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love Me; for I came forth out from God and have come from Him; for I have not come of Myself, but He sent Me.
Jn 8:43Why do you not understand My speaking? It is because you cannot hear My word.
Jn 8:44You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks the lie, he speaks it out of his own possessions; for he is a liar and the father of it.
Jn 8:45But because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me.
Jn 8:46Which of you convicts Me of sin? Since I speak truth, why do you not believe Me?
Jn 8:47He who is of God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear them, because you are not of God.
Jn 8:48The Jews answered and said to Him, Have we not spoken well in saying that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?
Jn 8:49Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.
Jn 8:50But I do not seek My glory; there is One who seeks glory for Me and judges.
Jn 8:51Truly, truly, I say to you, If anyone keeps My word, he shall by no means see death forever.
Jn 8:52The Jews therefore said to Him, Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets too; yet You say, If anyone keeps My word, he shall by no means taste death forever.
Jn 8:53Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets died too. Who are You making Yourself?
Jn 8:54Jesus answered, If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say that He is your God.
Jn 8:55Yet you have not known Him, but I know Him. And if I say that I do not know Him, I will be like you, a liar; but I do know Him and I keep His word.
Jn 8:56Your father Abraham exulted that he would see My day, and he saw it and rejoiced.
Jn 8:57The Jews then said to Him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?
Jn 8:58Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham came into being, I am.
Jn 8:59So they picked up stones to throw at Him, but Jesus was hidden and went out of the temple.
Jn 9:1And as He passed by, He saw a man blind from birth.
Jn 9:2And His disciples asked Him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind?
Jn 9:3Jesus answered, Neither has this man sinned nor his parents, but he was born so, that the works of God might be manifested in him.
Jn 9:4We must work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day; night is coming when no one can work.
Jn 9:5While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Jn 9:6When He had said this, He spat on the ground and made clay of the spittle and anointed his eyes with the clay,
Jn 9:7And He said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is interpreted, Sent). He went therefore and washed and came away seeing.
Jn 9:8The neighbors then and those who previously saw him as a beggar said, Is not this the one who used to sit and beg?
Jn 9:9Some said, This is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He said, I am the one.
Jn 9:10They said then to him, How then were your eyes opened?
Jn 9:11He answered, The man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. I went therefore and washed, and I received my sight.
Jn 9:12And they said to him, Where is He? He said, I do not know.
Jn 9:13They brought him who was once blind to the Pharisees.
Jn 9:14Now it was the Sabbath, on which day Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Jn 9:15Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. And he said to them, He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
Jn 9:16Then some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them.
Jn 9:17Then they said to the blind man again, What do you say about Him, in that He opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
Jn 9:18The Jews then did not believe concerning him that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight
Jn 9:19And asked them, saying, Is this your son, of whom you say that he was born blind? How then does he now see?
Jn 9:20Then his parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
Jn 9:21But how he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; he is of age; he will speak for himself.
Jn 9:22His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Him to be the Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Jn 9:23Because of this his parents said, He is of age; question him.
Jn 9:24Therefore a second time they called the man who had been blind, and said to him, Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
Jn 9:25Then he answered, Whether or not He is a sinner, I do not know; one thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see.
Jn 9:26They said then to him, What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?
Jn 9:27He answered them, I told you already and you did not hear. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?
Jn 9:28And they reviled him and said, You are His disciple; but we are disciples of Moses.
Jn 9:29We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where He is from.
Jn 9:30The man answered and said to them, Why here is an amazing thing, that you do not know where He is from, and yet He opened my eyes!
Jn 9:31We know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He hears him.
Jn 9:32Since time began it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of one born blind.
Jn 9:33If this man were not from God, He could do nothing.
Jn 9:34They answered and said to him, You were wholly born in sins, and you are teaching us? And they cast him out.
Jn 9:35Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and He found him and said, Do you believe into the Son of God?
Jn 9:36He answered and said, And who is He, Lord, that I may believe into Him?
Jn 9:37Jesus said to him, You have both seen Him, and He is the One speaking with you.
Jn 9:38And he said, Lord, I believe; and he worshipped Him.
Jn 9:39And Jesus said, For judgment I have come into this world, that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind.
Jn 9:40Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things and said to Him, We are not blind also, are we?
Jn 9:41Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would not have sin; but now that you say, We see; your sin remains.
Jn 10:1Truly, truly, I say to you, He who does not enter through the door into the sheepfold, but climbs up from somewhere else, he is a thief and a robber;
Jn 10:2But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
Jn 10:3To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
Jn 10:4When he puts forth all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
Jn 10:5But they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
Jn 10:6This parable Jesus spoke to them, but they did not know what those things meant that He spoke to them.
Jn 10:7Jesus therefore said to them again, Truly, truly, I say to you that I am the door of the sheep.
Jn 10:8All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
Jn 10:9I am the door; if anyone enters through Me, he shall be saved and shall go in and go out and shall find pasture.
Jn 10:10The thief does not come except to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life and may have it abundantly.
Jn 10:11I am the good Shepherd; the good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.
Jn 10:12He who is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf snatches them and scatters them.
Jn 10:13He flees because he is a hireling and it does not matter to him concerning the sheep.
Jn 10:14I am the good Shepherd, and I know My own, and My own know Me,
Jn 10:15Even as the Father knows Me and I know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep.
Jn 10:16And I have other sheep, which are not of this fold; I must lead them also, and they shall hear My voice, and there shall be one flock, one Shepherd.
Jn 10:17For this reason the Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it again.
Jn 10:18No one takes it away from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it again. This commandment I received from My Father.
Jn 10:19A division again took place among the Jews because of these words.
Jn 10:20And many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to Him?
Jn 10:21Others said, These are not the words of one who is demon-possessed. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
Jn 10:22At that time the Feast of the Dedication occurred in Jerusalem, and it was winter.
Jn 10:23And Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon.
Jn 10:24The Jews therefore surrounded Him and said to Him, How long will You hold our soul in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly.
Jn 10:25Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works which I do in My Father’s name, these testify concerning Me;
Jn 10:26But you do not believe, because you are not of My sheep.
Jn 10:27My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me;
Jn 10:28And I give to them eternal life, and they shall by no means perish forever, and no one shall snatch them out of My hand.
Jn 10:29My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of My Father’s hand.
Jn 10:30I and the Father are one.
Jn 10:31The Jews again took up stones that they might stone Him.
Jn 10:32Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of these works are you stoning Me?
Jn 10:33The Jews answered Him, We are not stoning You for a good work, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a man, are making Yourself God.
Jn 10:34Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, “I said, You are gods”?
Jn 10:35If He said they were gods, to whom the word of God came, and the Scripture cannot be broken,
Jn 10:36Do you say of Him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, You are blaspheming, because I said, I am the Son of God?
Jn 10:37If I do not do the works of My Father, do not believe Me;
Jn 10:38But if I do them, even if you do not believe Me, believe the works so that you may come to know and continue to know that the Father is in Me and I am in the Father.
Jn 10:39Then they sought again to seize Him, yet He went forth out of their hand.
Jn 10:40And He went away again across the Jordan, to the place where John was baptizing at first, and He remained there.
Jn 10:41And many came to Him and said, John did no sign, but all the things John said concerning this man were true.
Jn 10:42And many believed into Him there.
Jn 11:1Now there was a certain man who was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
Jn 11:2It was that Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
Jn 11:3The sisters therefore sent to Him saying, Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick.
Jn 11:4But when Jesus heard it, He said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, in order that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
Jn 11:5Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
Jn 11:6When therefore He heard that he was sick, He remained at that time in the place where He was for two days.
Jn 11:7Then after this He said to the disciples, Let us go into Judea again.
Jn 11:8The disciples said to Him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and You are going there again?
Jn 11:9Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
Jn 11:10But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
Jn 11:11He said these things, and after this He said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I am going that I may wake him out of sleep.
Jn 11:12The disciples then said to Him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.
Jn 11:13But Jesus had spoken about his death, but they thought that He was speaking about taking rest in sleep.
Jn 11:14So Jesus then told them plainly, Lazarus has died.
Jn 11:15And I rejoice for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe; but let us go to him.
Jn 11:16Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with Him.
Jn 11:17Then when Jesus came, He found that he had already been in the tomb four days.
Jn 11:18Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.
Jn 11:19And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
Jn 11:20Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him; but Mary sat in the house.
Jn 11:21Then Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
Jn 11:22But even now I know that whatever You ask of God, God will give You.
Jn 11:23Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again.
Jn 11:24Martha said to Him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection in the last day.
Jn 11:25Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes into Me, even if he should die, shall live;
Jn 11:26And everyone who lives and believes into Me shall by no means die forever. Do you believe this?
Jn 11:27She said to Him, Yes, Lord; I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, He who comes into the world.
Jn 11:28And when she had said this, she went away and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Teacher is here and is calling you.
Jn 11:29And she, when she heard this, rose quickly and came to Him.
Jn 11:30Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met Him.
Jn 11:31The Jews then who were with her in the house and were consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there.
Jn 11:32Then Mary, when she came to where Jesus was, saw Him and fell at His feet, saying to Him, Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
Jn 11:33Then Jesus, when He saw her weeping and the Jews who came with her weeping, was moved with indignation in His spirit and was troubled,
Jn 11:34And He said, Where have you put him? They said to Him, Lord, come and see.
Jn 11:35Jesus wept.
Jn 11:36The Jews then said, Behold how He loved him!
Jn 11:37But some of them said, Could not He who opened the eyes of the blind man also have caused that this man would not die?
Jn 11:38Jesus therefore, moved with indignation again in Himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it.
Jn 11:39Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him who was deceased, said to Him, Lord, by now he smells, for it is the fourth day that he is there.
Jn 11:40Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?
Jn 11:41Then they took the stone away. And Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, Father, I thank You that You have heard Me.
Jn 11:42And I knew that You always hear Me; but because of the crowd standing around, I said it, that they may believe that You have sent Me.
Jn 11:43And when He had said these things, He cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out!
Jn 11:44And he who had died came out, bound hand and foot with cloths, and his face was bound about with a handkerchief. Jesus said to them, Loose him and let him go.
Jn 11:45Many of the Jews therefore who had come to Mary and beheld the things that He did believed into Him.
Jn 11:46But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them the things that Jesus did.
Jn 11:47Then the chief priests and the Pharisees assembled a council and said, What do we do? For this man is doing many signs.
Jn 11:48If we let Him do so, all will believe into Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.
Jn 11:49But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all,
Jn 11:50Nor do you take account of the fact that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people and that not the whole nation perish.
Jn 11:51But this he did not say from himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die for the nation,
Jn 11:52And not for the nation only, but that He might also gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
Jn 11:53From that day therefore they took counsel to kill Him.
Jn 11:54Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went away from there to the region near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there He remained with the disciples.
Jn 11:55Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover in order to purify themselves.
Jn 11:56They then sought Jesus, and said to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That He will not, by any means, come to the feast?
Jn 11:57Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was, he should disclose it, so that they might arrest Him.
Jn 12:1Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
Jn 12:2Therefore they made Him a supper there; and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of the ones reclining at table with Him.
Jn 12:3Then Mary took a pound of ointment, of very valuable pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment.
Jn 12:4But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, who was about to betray Him, said,
Jn 12:5Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
Jn 12:6But he said this not because it mattered to him concerning the poor, but because he was a thief, and holding the purse, carried off what was put into it.
Jn 12:7Then Jesus said, Leave her alone; she has reserved it for the day of My burial.
Jn 12:8For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have Me.
Jn 12:9Then a great crowd of the Jews found out that He was there, and they came, not because of Jesus only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead.
Jn 12:10And the chief priests took counsel to kill Lazarus also,
Jn 12:11Because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed into Jesus.
Jn 12:12On the next day, the great crowd who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem,
Jn 12:13Took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!
Jn 12:14And Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it, as it is written,
Jn 12:15“Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King comes, sitting on a donkey’s colt.”
Jn 12:16These things His disciples did not understand at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of Him and that they had done these things to Him.
Jn 12:17The crowd therefore that was with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead testified.
Jn 12:18For this reason the crowd also went and met Him, because they heard that He had done this sign.
Jn 12:19The Pharisees then said to one another, You see that you are not doing anything worthwhile; behold, the world has gone after Him.
Jn 12:20And there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast.
Jn 12:21These then came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus.
Jn 12:22Philip came and told Andrew; Andrew came, and Philip too, and they told Jesus.
Jn 12:23And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
Jn 12:24Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
Jn 12:25He who loves his soul-life loses it; and he who hates his soul-life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life.
Jn 12:26If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there also My servant will be. If anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.
Jn 12:27Now is My soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save Me out of this hour. But for this reason I have come to this hour.
Jn 12:28Father, glorify Your name. Then a voice came out of heaven: I have both glorified it and will glorify it again.
Jn 12:29The crowd therefore which stood by and heard it said that there had been thunder; others said, An angel has spoken to Him.
Jn 12:30Jesus answered and said, This voice has not come for My sake, but for your sake.
Jn 12:31Now is the judgment of this world; now shall the ruler of this world be cast out.
Jn 12:32And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to Myself.
Jn 12:33But He said this signifying by what kind of death He was about to die.
Jn 12:34The crowd therefore answered Him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abides forever; and how is it that You say, The Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?
Jn 12:35Jesus then said to them, The light is still among you a little while. Walk while you have the light so that darkness may not overcome you; and he who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going.
Jn 12:36While you have the light, believe into the light, so that you may become sons of light. Jesus said these things, and He went away and was hidden from them.
Jn 12:37But though He had done so many signs before them, they did not believe into Him,
Jn 12:38That the word of the prophet Isaiah which he said might be fulfilled, “Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”
Jn 12:39For this reason they could not believe, because again Isaiah said,
Jn 12:40“He has blinded their eyes and He hardened their heart, that they might not see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I will heal them.”
Jn 12:41These things said Isaiah because he saw His glory and spoke concerning Him.
Jn 12:42Nevertheless even many of the rulers believed into Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue;
Jn 12:43For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
Jn 12:44But Jesus cried out and said, He who believes into Me does not believe into Me, but into Him who sent Me;
Jn 12:45And he who beholds Me beholds Him who sent Me.
Jn 12:46I have come as a light into the world, that everyone who believes into Me would not remain in darkness.
Jn 12:47And if anyone hears My words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I have not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
Jn 12:48He who rejects Me and does not receive My words has one who judges him; the word which I have spoken, that will judge him in the last day.
Jn 12:49For I have not spoken from Myself; but the Father who sent Me, He Himself has given Me commandment, what to say and what to speak.
Jn 12:50And I know that His commandment is eternal life. The things therefore that I speak, even as the Father has said to Me, so I speak.
Jn 13:1Now before the Feast of the Passover, Jesus knowing that His hour had come for Him to depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the uttermost.
Jn 13:2And while supper was taking place, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, that he should betray Him,
Jn 13:3Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all into His hands and that He had come forth from God and was going to God,
Jn 13:4Rose from supper and laid aside His outer garments; and taking a towel, He girded Himself;
Jn 13:5Then He poured water into the basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet and to wipe them with the towel with which He was girded.
Jn 13:6He came then to Simon Peter. Peter said to Him, Lord, do You wash my feet?
Jn 13:7Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing you do not know now, but you will know after these things.
Jn 13:8Peter said to Him, You shall by no means wash my feet forever. Jesus answered him, Unless I wash you, you have no part with Me.
Jn 13:9Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.
Jn 13:10Jesus said to him, He who is bathed has no need except to wash his feet, but is wholly clean; and you are clean, but not all of you.
Jn 13:11For He knew the one betraying Him; for this reason He said, Not all of you are clean.
Jn 13:12Then when He had washed their feet and taken His outer garments and reclined at the table again, He said to them, Do you know what I have done to you?
Jn 13:13You call Me the Teacher and the Lord, and you say rightly, for I am.
Jn 13:14If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet.
Jn 13:15For I have given you an example so that you also may do even as I have done to you.
Jn 13:16Truly, truly, I say to you, A slave is not greater than his master, nor one who is sent greater than the one who sends him.
Jn 13:17If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
Jn 13:18I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, “He who eats bread with Me has lifted up his heel against Me.”
Jn 13:19From now on I am telling you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe that I am.
Jn 13:20Truly, truly, I say to you, He who receives whomever I shall send receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.
Jn 13:21When Jesus had said these things, He became troubled in His spirit, and He testified and said, Truly, truly, I say to you that one of you will betray Me.
Jn 13:22The disciples looked at one another, perplexed over whom He was speaking about.
Jn 13:23One of His disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining on Jesus’ bosom.
Jn 13:24Simon Peter therefore nodded to him to inquire who it might be about whom He was speaking.
Jn 13:25Then he, while reclining thus on Jesus’ breast, said to Him, Lord, who is it?
Jn 13:26Jesus answered, It is he for whom I will dip the morsel and to whom I will give it. And dipping the morsel, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
Jn 13:27And at that moment, after the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus therefore said to him, What you do, do quickly.
Jn 13:28But none of those reclining at table knew why He said this to him.
Jn 13:29For some supposed, since Judas held the purse, that Jesus was saying to him, Buy the things that we have need of for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor.
Jn 13:30Therefore having taken the morsel, he went out immediately; and it was night.
Jn 13:31Then when he went out, Jesus said, Now has the Son of Man been glorified, and God has been glorified in Him.
Jn 13:32If God has been glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and He will glorify Him immediately.
Jn 13:33Little children, I am still with you a little while; you will seek Me, and even as I said to the Jews, Where I am going, you cannot come, now I say to you also.
Jn 13:34A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Jn 13:35By this shall all men know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.
Jn 13:36Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, where are You going? Jesus answered him, Where I go you cannot follow Me now, but you will follow later.
Jn 13:37Peter said to Him, Lord, why can’t I follow You now? I will lay down my life for You.
Jn 13:38Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for Me? Truly, truly, I say to you, A rooster shall by no means crow until you deny Me three times.
Jn 14:1Do not let your heart be troubled; believe into God, believe also into Me.
Jn 14:2In My Father’s house are many abodes; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you.
Jn 14:3And if I go and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you to Myself, so that where I am you also may be.
Jn 14:4And where I am going you know the way.
Jn 14:5Thomas said to Him, Lord, we do not know where You are going; how can we know the way?
Jn 14:6Jesus said to him, I am the way and the reality and the life; no one comes to the Father except through Me.
Jn 14:7If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and henceforth you know Him and have seen Him.
Jn 14:8Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father and it is sufficient for us.
Jn 14:9Jesus said to him, Have I been so long a time with you, and you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how is it that you say, Show us the Father?
Jn 14:10Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak from Myself, but the Father who abides in Me does His works.
Jn 14:11Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me; but if not, believe because of the works themselves.
Jn 14:12Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes into Me, the works which I do he shall do also; and greater than these he shall do because I am going to the Father.
Jn 14:13And whatever you ask in My name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
Jn 14:14If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do it.
Jn 14:15If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.
Jn 14:16And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Comforter, that He may be with you forever,
Jn 14:17Even the Spirit of reality, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not behold Him or know Him; but you know Him, because He abides with you and shall be in you.
Jn 14:18I will not leave you as orphans; I am coming to you.
Jn 14:19Yet a little while and the world beholds Me no longer, but you behold Me; because I live, you also shall live.
Jn 14:20In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
Jn 14:21He who has My commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will manifest Myself to him.
Jn 14:22Judas, not Iscariot, said to Him, Lord, and what has happened that You are to manifest Yourself to us and not to the world?
Jn 14:23Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make an abode with him.
Jn 14:24He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father’s who sent Me.
Jn 14:25These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you;
Jn 14:26But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things and remind you of all the things which I have said to you.
Jn 14:27Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
Jn 14:28You have heard that I said to you, I am going away and I am coming to you. If you loved Me, you would rejoice because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.
Jn 14:29And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you may believe.
Jn 14:30I will no longer speak much with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and in Me he has nothing;
Jn 14:31But this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded Me, so I do. Rise, let us go from here.
Jn 15:1I am the true vine, and My Father is the husbandman.
Jn 15:2Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit, He takes it away; and every branch that bears fruit, He prunes it that it may bear more fruit.
Jn 15:3You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
Jn 15:4Abide in Me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in Me.
Jn 15:5I am the vine; you are the branches. He who abides in Me and I in him, he bears much fruit; for apart from Me you can do nothing.
Jn 15:6If one does not abide in Me, he is cast out as a branch and is dried up; and they gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
Jn 15:7If you abide in Me and My words abide in you, ask whatever you will, and it shall be done for you.
Jn 15:8In this is My Father glorified, that you bear much fruit and so you will become My disciples.
Jn 15:9As the Father has loved Me, I also have loved you; abide in My love.
Jn 15:10If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love; even as I have kept My Father’s commandments and abide in His love.
Jn 15:11These things I have spoken to you that My joy may be in you and that your joy may be made full.
Jn 15:12This is My commandment, that you love one another even as I have loved you.
Jn 15:13No one has greater love than this, that one lay down his life for his friends.
Jn 15:14You are My friends if you do what I command you.
Jn 15:15No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all the things which I have heard from My Father I have made known to you.
Jn 15:16You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and I set you that you should go forth and bear fruit and that your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask the Father in My name, He may give you.
Jn 15:17These things I command you that you may love one another.
Jn 15:18If the world hates you, know that it has hated Me before you.
Jn 15:19If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
Jn 15:20Remember the word which I said to you, A slave is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted Me, they will persecute you also; if they have kept My word, they will keep yours also.
Jn 15:21But all these things they will do to you because of My name, because they do not know Him who sent Me.
Jn 15:22If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.
Jn 15:23He who hates Me hates My Father also.
Jn 15:24If I did not do among them the works which no one else has done, they would not have sin; but now they have both seen and hated both Me and My Father.
Jn 15:25But it is so that the word written in their law may be fulfilled, “They hated Me without cause.”
Jn 15:26But when the Comforter comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of reality, who proceeds from the Father, He will testify concerning Me;
Jn 15:27And you testify also, because from the beginning you have been with Me.
Jn 16:1These things I have spoken to you so that you would not be stumbled.
Jn 16:2They will put you out of the synagogues; but an hour is coming for everyone who kills you to think that he is offering service to God.
Jn 16:3And these things they will do because they have not known the Father nor Me.
Jn 16:4But these things I have spoken to you that when their hour comes you may remember them, that I told you of them. Now these things I have not said to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
Jn 16:5But now I am going to Him who sent Me; and none of you asks Me, Where are You going?
Jn 16:6But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
Jn 16:7But I tell you the truth, It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you.
Jn 16:8And when He comes, He will convict the world concerning sin and concerning righteousness and concerning judgment:
Jn 16:9Concerning sin, because they do not believe into Me;
Jn 16:10And concerning righteousness, because I am going to the Father and you no longer behold Me;
Jn 16:11And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
Jn 16:12I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
Jn 16:13But when He, the Spirit of reality, comes, He will guide you into all the reality; for He will not speak from Himself, but what He hears He will speak; and He will declare to you the things that are coming.
Jn 16:14He will glorify Me, for He will receive of Mine and will declare it to you.
Jn 16:15All that the Father has is Mine; for this reason I have said that He receives of Mine and will declare it to you.
Jn 16:16A little while and you no longer behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me.
Jn 16:17Some of His disciples then said to one another, What is this that He says to us, A little while and you do not behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me; and, Because I am going to the Father?
Jn 16:18Therefore they said, What is this that He says, A little while? We do not know what He is talking about.
Jn 16:19Jesus knew that they wanted to ask Him and He said to them, Are you inquiring among yourselves concerning this, that I said, A little while and you do not behold Me, and again a little while and you will see Me?
Jn 16:20Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy.
Jn 16:21A woman, when she gives birth, has sorrow because her hour has come; but when she brings forth the little child, she no longer remembers the affliction because of the joy that a man has been born into the world.
Jn 16:22Therefore you also now have sorrow; but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and no one takes your joy away from you.
Jn 16:23And in that day you will ask Me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, Whatever you ask the Father in My name, He will give to you.
Jn 16:24Until now you have asked for nothing in My name; ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be made full.
Jn 16:25These things I have spoken to you in parables; an hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in parables, but I will report to you plainly concerning the Father.
Jn 16:26In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father concerning you,
Jn 16:27For the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me and have believed that I came forth from God.
Jn 16:28I came forth out from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and am going to the Father.
Jn 16:29His disciples said, Behold, now You are speaking plainly and not saying any parable.
Jn 16:30Now we know that You know all things and have no need that anyone ask You; by this we believe that You came forth from God.
Jn 16:31Jesus answered them, Do you now believe?
Jn 16:32Behold, an hour is coming, and has come, that you will be scattered each to his own place and will leave Me alone; yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me.
Jn 16:33These things I have spoken to you that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have affliction, but take courage; I have overcome the world.
Jn 17:1These things Jesus spoke, and lifting up His eyes to heaven, He said, Father, the hour has come; glorify Your Son that the Son may glorify You;
Jn 17:2Even as You have given Him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom You have given Him.
Jn 17:3And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Him whom You have sent, Jesus Christ.
Jn 17:4I have glorified You on earth, finishing the work which You have given Me to do.
Jn 17:5And now, glorify Me along with Yourself, Father, with the glory which I had with You before the world was.
Jn 17:6I have manifested Your name to the men whom You gave Me out of the world. They were Yours, and You gave them to Me, and they have kept Your word.
Jn 17:7Now they have come to know that all that You have given Me is from You,
Jn 17:8For the words which You gave Me I have given to them, and they received them and knew truly that I came forth from You, and they have believed that You sent Me.
Jn 17:9I ask concerning them; I do not ask concerning the world, but concerning those whom You have given Me, for they are Yours;
Jn 17:10And all that is Mine is Yours, and Yours Mine; and I have been glorified in them.
Jn 17:11And I am no longer in the world; yet they are in the world, and I am coming to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name, which You have given to Me, that they may be one even as We are.
Jn 17:12When I was with them, I kept them in Your name, which You have given to Me, and I guarded them; and not one of them perished, except the son of perdition, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
Jn 17:13But now I am coming to You, and these things I speak in the world that they may have My joy made full in themselves.
Jn 17:14I have given them Your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world even as I am not of the world.
Jn 17:15I do not ask that You would take them out of the world, but that You would keep them out of the hands of the evil one.
Jn 17:16They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
Jn 17:17Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth.
Jn 17:18As You have sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.
Jn 17:19And for their sake I sanctify Myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
Jn 17:20And I do not ask concerning these only, but concerning those also who believe into Me through their word,
Jn 17:21That they all may be one; even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You, that they also may be in Us; that the world may believe that You have sent Me.
Jn 17:22And the glory which You have given Me I have given to them, that they may be one, even as We are one;
Jn 17:23I in them, and You in Me, that they may be perfected into one, that the world may know that You have sent Me and have loved them even as You have loved Me.
Jn 17:24Father, concerning that which You have given Me, I desire that they also may be with Me where I am, that they may behold My glory, which You have given Me, for You loved Me before the foundation of the world.
Jn 17:25Righteous Father, though the world has not known You, yet I have known You, and these have known that You have sent Me.
Jn 17:26And I have made Your name known to them and will yet make it known, that the love with which You have loved Me may be in them, and I in them.
Jn 18:1When Jesus had said these things, He went forth with His disciples across the brook Kedron, where there was a garden, into which He entered as well as His disciples.
Jn 18:2And Judas also, who was betraying Him, knew the place, for Jesus often gathered there with His disciples.
Jn 18:3Then Judas, having gotten the cohort and some attendants from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with torches and lamps and weapons.
Jn 18:4Jesus therefore, knowing all the things that were coming upon Him, went forth and said to them, Whom do you seek?
Jn 18:5They answered Him, Jesus the Nazarene. He said to them, I am. And Judas also, who was betraying Him, was standing with them.
Jn 18:6When therefore He said to them, I am, they drew back and fell to the ground.
Jn 18:7Then again He asked them, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene.
Jn 18:8Jesus answered, I told you that I am; if therefore you seek Me, let these go away,
Jn 18:9That the word might be fulfilled which He spoke, Of those whom You have given Me, I have not lost one.
Jn 18:10Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear; and the slave’s name was Malchus.
Jn 18:11Jesus therefore said to Peter, Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given Me, shall I not drink it?
Jn 18:12Then the cohort and the commander and the attendants of the Jews seized Jesus and bound Him
Jn 18:13And led Him away to Annas first; for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
Jn 18:14Now it was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die for the people.
Jn 18:15And Simon Peter followed Jesus, as well as another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest;
Jn 18:16But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple, the one known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the maid who kept the door and brought Peter in.
Jn 18:17Then the maid who kept the door said to Peter, Are you not also one of this man’s disciples? He said, I am not.
Jn 18:18Now the slaves and the attendants were standing there, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves; and Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
Jn 18:19The high priest then questioned Jesus concerning His disciples and concerning His teaching.
Jn 18:20Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews come together, and I spoke nothing in secret.
Jn 18:21Why do you question Me? Question those who have heard Me, concerning what I spoke to them; behold, these know what I said.
Jn 18:22And when He said these things, one of the attendants standing by slapped Jesus, saying, Is that how You answer the high priest?
Jn 18:23Jesus answered him, If I have spoken wrongly, testify concerning the wrong; but if rightly, why do you strike Me?
Jn 18:24Annas then sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
Jn 18:25Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him, Are you not also one of His disciples? He denied and said, I am not.
Jn 18:26One of the slaves of the high priest, who was a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said, Did I not see you in the garden with Him?
Jn 18:27Then Peter denied again, and immediately a rooster crowed.
Jn 18:28Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium, and it was early morning. And they themselves did not enter into the praetorium, so that they would not be defiled, but might eat the passover.
Jn 18:29Pilate therefore went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man?
Jn 18:30They answered and said to him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered Him to you.
Jn 18:31Pilate said then to them, You take Him and judge Him according to your law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to kill anyone,
Jn 18:32That the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which He spoke, signifying by what kind of death He was to die.
Jn 18:33Pilate therefore entered again into the praetorium and called for Jesus. And he said to Him, You are the King of the Jews?
Jn 18:34Jesus answered, Are you saying this of yourself, or did others tell you about Me?
Jn 18:35Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your nation and its chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?
Jn 18:36Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My attendants would be struggling so that I would not be delivered to the Jews; but as it is, My kingdom is not from here.
Jn 18:37Pilate said therefore to Him, So then You are a king? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world, that I would testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice.
Jn 18:38Pilate said to Him, What is truth? And having said this, he again went out to the Jews and said to them, I find no fault in Him.
Jn 18:39But you have a custom that I release one man to you at the Passover. Is it your will therefore that I release to you the King of the Jews?
Jn 18:40Then they cried out again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.
Jn 19:1Therefore at that time Pilate took Jesus and scourged Him.
Jn 19:2And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and they threw a purple garment around Him.
Jn 19:3And they came to Him and said, Rejoice, King of the Jews! and slapped Him.
Jn 19:4And Pilate went outside again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing Him out to you that you may know that I find no fault in Him.
Jn 19:5Then Jesus came out, wearing the thorny crown and the purple garment. And he said to them, Behold, the man!
Jn 19:6When therefore the chief priests and the attendants saw Him, they cried out, saying, Crucify! Crucify! Pilate said to them, You take Him and crucify Him, for I do not find fault in Him.
Jn 19:7The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law He ought to die because He made Himself the Son of God.
Jn 19:8When Pilate therefore heard this word, he became frightened the more,
Jn 19:9And he entered into the praetorium again and said to Jesus, Where are You from? But Jesus gave him no answer.
Jn 19:10Therefore Pilate said to Him, You do not speak to me? Do You not know that I have authority to release You and I have authority to crucify You?
Jn 19:11Jesus answered him, You would have no authority against Me if it were not given to you from above; for this reason, he who has delivered Me to you has the greater sin.
Jn 19:12From then on, Pilate sought to release Him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar; everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar.
Jn 19:13Pilate therefore, when he heard these words, brought Jesus outside and sat down on the judgment seat in a place called the Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
Jn 19:14Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold, your King!
Jn 19:15They cried out then, Take Him away! Take Him away! Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king except Caesar.
Jn 19:16Therefore at that time he delivered Him to them that He might be crucified. Therefore they took Jesus.
Jn 19:17And bearing the cross for Himself, He went out to the place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha,
Jn 19:18Where they crucified Him, and with Him two others, on this side and that, and Jesus in the middle.
Jn 19:19And Pilate wrote a notice also and put it on the cross; and it was written, JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Jn 19:20This notice therefore many of the Jews read, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek.
Jn 19:21The chief priests of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, Do not write, The King of the Jews, but that He said, I am the King of the Jews.
Jn 19:22Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
Jn 19:23The soldiers then, when they had crucified Jesus, took His garments and made four parts, a part for each soldier, and they took the tunic as well. But the tunic was seamless, woven from the top throughout.
Jn 19:24They said therefore to one another, Let us not tear it, but let us cast lots for it to see whose it shall be, that the Scripture might be fulfilled which says, “They divided My garments among themselves, and for My clothing they cast lots.” So then the soldiers did these things.
Jn 19:25And there were standing by the cross of Jesus His mother and His mother’s sister and Mary the wife of Clopas and Mary the Magdalene.
Jn 19:26Then Jesus, seeing His mother and the disciple whom He loved standing by, said to His mother, Woman, behold, your son.
Jn 19:27Then He said to the disciple, Behold, your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her into his own home.
Jn 19:28After this, Jesus, knowing that all things had now been finished and so that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst.
Jn 19:29There was lying there a vessel full of vinegar; therefore, they put a sponge full of vinegar on hyssop and brought it to His mouth.
Jn 19:30Then when Jesus had taken the vinegar, He said, It is finished! And He bowed His head and delivered up His spirit.
Jn 19:31Then the Jews, since it was the day of preparation and so that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath day was a great Sabbath), requested of Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away.
Jn 19:32The soldiers therefore came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other man who had been crucified with Him.
Jn 19:33But coming to Jesus, when they saw that He had already died, they did not break His legs;
Jn 19:34But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately there came out blood and water.
Jn 19:35And he who has seen this has testified, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he says what is true, that you also may believe.
Jn 19:36For these things happened that the Scripture might be fulfilled: “No bone of His shall be broken.”
Jn 19:37And again another Scripture says, “They shall look on Him whom they pierced.”
Jn 19:38And after these things Joseph from Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a hidden one for fear of the Jews, requested of Pilate that he might take the body of Jesus away; and Pilate allowed it. He came therefore and took His body away.
Jn 19:39And Nicodemus, he who had come to Him the first time by night, came also, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes of about a hundred pounds.
Jn 19:40Therefore they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the custom of the Jews for burying.
Jn 19:41Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever yet been laid.
Jn 19:42Therefore because of the day of preparation for the Jews and because the tomb was near, they laid Jesus there.
Jn 20:1Now on the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene came early to the tomb while it was yet dark and saw the stone taken away from the tomb.
Jn 20:2She ran therefore and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid Him.
Jn 20:3Peter therefore went forth, as well as the other disciple, and came to the tomb.
Jn 20:4And the two ran together, yet the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came first to the tomb.
Jn 20:5And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there; however, he did not enter.
Jn 20:6Then Simon Peter also came, following him, and entered into the tomb; and he beheld the linen cloths lying there
Jn 20:7And the handkerchief which had been over His head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in one place apart.
Jn 20:8At that time therefore the other disciple also, who came first to the tomb, entered, and he saw and believed;
Jn 20:9For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that He had to rise from the dead.
Jn 20:10The disciples therefore went away again to their own home.
Jn 20:11But Mary stood outside at the tomb weeping. Then as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb
Jn 20:12And beheld two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
Jn 20:13And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid Him.
Jn 20:14When she said these things, she turned backward and beheld Jesus standing there, yet she did not know that it was Jesus.
Jn 20:15Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing that He was the gardener, said to Him, Sir, if You have carried Him away, tell me where You have laid Him, and I will take Him away.
Jn 20:16Jesus said to her, Mary! She turned and said to Him in Hebrew, Rabboni! (which means Teacher).
Jn 20:17Jesus said to her, Do not touch Me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to My brothers and say to them, I ascend to My Father and your Father, and My God and your God.
Jn 20:18Mary the Magdalene came, announcing to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that He had said these things to her.
Jn 20:19When therefore it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and while the doors were shut where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be to you.
Jn 20:20And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side. The disciples therefore rejoiced at seeing the Lord.
Jn 20:21Then Jesus said to them again, Peace be to you; as the Father has sent Me, I also send you.
Jn 20:22And when He had said this, He breathed into them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit.
Jn 20:23Whose sins you forgive, they are forgiven them; and whose sins you retain, they are retained.
Jn 20:24But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
Jn 20:25The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord! But he said to them, Unless I see in His hands the mark of the nails and put my finger into the mark of the nails and put my hand into His side, I will by no means believe.
Jn 20:26And after eight days, His disciples were again within, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, though the doors were shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace be to you.
Jn 20:27Then He said to Thomas, Bring your finger here and see My hands, and bring your hand and put it into My side; and do not be unbelieving, but believing.
Jn 20:28Thomas answered and said to Him, My Lord and my God!
Jn 20:29Jesus said to him, Because you have seen Me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and have believed.
Jn 20:30Moreover indeed many other signs also Jesus did before His disciples, which are not written in this book.
Jn 20:31But these have been written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing, you may have life in His name.
Jn 21:1After these things Jesus manifested Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And He manifested Himself in this way:
Jn 21:2Simon Peter and Thomas, called Didymus, and Nathanael from Cana of Galilee and the sons of Zebedee and two others of His disciples were there together.
Jn 21:3Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We also are coming with you. They went forth and got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing.
Jn 21:4Now as soon as the morning broke, Jesus stood on the shore; however the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
Jn 21:5Then Jesus said to them, Little children, you do not have any fish to eat, do you? They answered Him, No.
Jn 21:6And He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. They cast therefore, and they were no longer able to haul it in because of the abundance of fish.
Jn 21:7Then that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord! Therefore when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment around himself, for he was naked; and he threw himself into the sea.
Jn 21:8But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away, dragging the net of fish.
Jn 21:9Then when they got out onto the land, they saw a fire of coals laid there, and fish lying on it and bread.
Jn 21:10Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just now caught.
Jn 21:11Simon Peter therefore went up and hauled the net to the land full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three; and though there were so many, the net was not torn.
Jn 21:12Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. But none of the disciples dared to inquire of Him, Who are you? knowing that it was the Lord.
Jn 21:13Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the fish likewise.
Jn 21:14This was now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after He had been raised from the dead.
Jn 21:15Then when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love Me more than these? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Feed My lambs.
Jn 21:16He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love Me? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Shepherd My sheep.
Jn 21:17He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love Me? Peter was grieved that He said to him the third time, Do you love Me? And he said to Him, Lord, You know all things; You know that I love You. Jesus said to him, Feed My sheep.
Jn 21:18Truly, truly, I say to you, When you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished; but when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish to go.
Jn 21:19Now this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had said this, He said to him, Follow Me.
Jn 21:20Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also reclined on His breast at the supper and said, Lord, who is the one betraying You?
Jn 21:21Peter therefore, seeing him, said to Jesus, Lord, and what about this man?
Jn 21:22Jesus said to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me.
Jn 21:23This word therefore went out among the brothers, that that disciple would not die, yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you?
Jn 21:24This is the disciple who testifies concerning these things, and the one who has written these things; and we know that his testimony is true.
Jn 21:25And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they were written one by one, I suppose that not even the world itself could contain the books written.
Ac 1:1The former account I have made, O Theophilus, concerning all the things that Jesus began both to do and to teach,
Ac 1:2Until the day on which He was taken up, after He had given commandment through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom He chose;
Ac 1:3To whom also He presented Himself alive after His suffering by many irrefutable proofs, appearing to them through a period of forty days and speaking the things concerning the kingdom of God.
Ac 1:4And as He met together with them, He charged them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, He said, You heard from Me;
Ac 1:5For John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days from now.
Ac 1:6So the ones who came together asked Him, saying, Lord, are You at this time restoring the kingdom to Israel?
Ac 1:7But He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has set by His own authority.
Ac 1:8But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you shall be My witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth.
Ac 1:9And when He had said these things, while they were looking on, He was lifted up, and a cloud took Him away from their sight.
Ac 1:10And while they were looking intently into heaven as He went, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them,
Ac 1:11Who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you beheld Him going into heaven.
Ac 1:12Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day’s journey away.
Ac 1:13And when they entered, they went up to the upper room where they were residing, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas the brother of James.
Ac 1:14These all continued steadfastly with one accord in prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
Ac 1:15And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the brothers and said (there was a group of persons gathered together, about a hundred and twenty),
Ac 1:16Men, brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before through the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who seized Jesus;
Ac 1:17For he was numbered among us and was allotted his portion of this ministry.
Ac 1:18(Now this man acquired a piece of land with the wages of unrighteousness; and falling headlong, he burst in the middle, and all his inward parts gushed out.
Ac 1:19And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem, so that that piece of land was called in their own dialect, Akeldamach, that is, Field of Blood.)
Ac 1:20For it is written in the book of Psalms, “Let his habitation become desolate, and let no one dwell in it”; and, “His overseership let another take.”
Ac 1:21It is necessary therefore that of the men who accompanied us all the time in which the Lord Jesus went in and went out among us,
Ac 1:22Beginning from the baptism of John until the day on which He was taken up from us, one of these should become a witness of His resurrection with us.
Ac 1:23And they proposed two, Joseph, called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
Ac 1:24And they prayed and said, You Lord, Knower of the hearts of all, show us clearly the one whom You have chosen of these two
Ac 1:25To take the place of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.
Ac 1:26And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias; and he was counted with the eleven apostles.
Ac 2:1And as the day of Pentecost was being fulfilled, they were all together in the same place.
Ac 2:2And suddenly there was a sound out of heaven, as of a rushing violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
Ac 2:3And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, which were distributed; and it sat on each one of them;
Ac 2:4And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in different tongues, even as the Spirit gave to them to speak forth.
Ac 2:5Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven.
Ac 2:6And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and was confounded because each one heard them speaking in his own dialect.
Ac 2:7And they were amazed and marveled, saying, Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
Ac 2:8And how is it that we each hear them in our own dialect in which we were born?
Ac 2:9Parthians and Medes and Elamites and those dwelling in Mesopotamia, both in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia,
Ac 2:10Both in Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt and the parts of Libya around Cyrene, and the sojourning of Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
Ac 2:11Cretans and Arabians, we hear them speaking in our tongues the magnificent works of God?
Ac 2:12And they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, What does this mean?
Ac 2:13But others jeered and said, They are full of new wine!
Ac 2:14But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and spoke forth to them: Men of Judea, and all who are dwelling in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.
Ac 2:15For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day;
Ac 2:16But this is what is spoken through the prophet Joel:
Ac 2:17“And it shall be in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream things in dreams;
Ac 2:18And indeed upon My slaves, both men and women, I will pour out of My Spirit in those days, and they shall prophesy.
Ac 2:19And I will show wonders in heaven above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke.
Ac 2:20The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable day of the Lord comes.
Ac 2:21And it shall be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.”
Ac 2:22Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man shown by God to you to be approved by works of power and wonders and signs, which God did through Him in your midst, even as you yourselves know — 
Ac 2:23This man, delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you, through the hand of lawless men, nailed to a cross and killed;
Ac 2:24Whom God has raised up, having loosed the pangs of death, since it was not possible for Him to be held by it.
Ac 2:25For David says regarding Him, “I saw the Lord continually before me, because He is on my right hand, that I may not be shaken.
Ac 2:26Therefore my heart was made glad and my tongue exulted; moreover, also my flesh will rest in hope,
Ac 2:27Because You will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor will You permit Your Holy One to see corruption.
Ac 2:28You have made known to me the ways of life; You will make me full of gladness with Your presence.”
Ac 2:29Men, brothers, I can say to you plainly concerning the patriarch David that he both deceased and was buried, and his tomb is among us until this day.
Ac 2:30Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him to seat One from the fruit of his loins upon his throne,
Ac 2:31He, seeing this beforehand, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that neither was He abandoned to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption.
Ac 2:32This Jesus God has raised up, of which we all are witnesses.
Ac 2:33Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received the promise of the Holy Spirit from the Father, He has poured out this which you both see and hear.
Ac 2:34For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, “The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand
Ac 2:35Until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.”
Ac 2:36Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made Him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you have crucified.
Ac 2:37And when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, What should we do, brothers?
Ac 2:38And Peter said to them, Repent and each one of you be baptized upon the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Ac 2:39For to you is the promise and to your children, and to all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God calls to Himself.
Ac 2:40And with many other words he solemnly testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this crooked generation.
Ac 2:41Those then who received his word were baptized, and there were added on that day about three thousand souls.
Ac 2:42And they continued steadfastly in the teaching and the fellowship of the apostles, in the breaking of bread and the prayers.
Ac 2:43And fear was upon every soul; and many wonders and signs took place through the apostles.
Ac 2:44And all those who believed were together and had all things common;
Ac 2:45And they sold their properties and possessions and divided them to all, as anyone had need.
Ac 2:46And day by day, continuing steadfastly with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they partook of their food with exultation and simplicity of heart,
Ac 2:47Praising God and having grace with all the people. And the Lord added together day by day those who were being saved.
Ac 3:1Now Peter and John were going up into the temple at the ninth-hour prayer;
Ac 3:2And a certain man who had been lame from his mother’s womb was being carried there, whom they had laid day by day at the door of the temple which is called Beautiful to ask alms from those entering into the temple.
Ac 3:3And he, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, began to ask to receive alms.
Ac 3:4And Peter, gazing at him with John, said, Look at us!
Ac 3:5And he turned his attention to them, expecting to receive something from them.
Ac 3:6But Peter said, Silver and gold I do not possess, but what I have, this I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene rise up and walk.
Ac 3:7And he seized him by the right hand and raised him up; and instantly his feet and ankles were made strong.
Ac 3:8And leaping up and about, he stood and began to walk, and he entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
Ac 3:9And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
Ac 3:10And they recognized him, that he was the one who had been sitting for alms at the temple’s Beautiful Gate; and they were filled with amazement and astonishment at what had happened to him.
Ac 3:11And while he was holding on to Peter and John, all the people ran together toward them at the portico called Solomon’s, greatly amazed.
Ac 3:12And when Peter saw this, he replied to the people, Men of Israel, why are you marveling at this? Or why are you gazing at us, as though by our own power or godliness we have made him walk?
Ac 3:13The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release Him.
Ac 3:14But you denied the holy and righteous One and asked that a man who was a murderer be granted to you;
Ac 3:15And the Author of life you killed, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
Ac 3:16And upon faith in His name, His name has made this man strong, whom you behold and know; and the faith which is through Him has given him this wholeness of health before you all.
Ac 3:17And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as also your rulers did;
Ac 3:18But the things which God announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets, that His Christ would suffer, He has thus fulfilled.
Ac 3:19Repent therefore and turn, that your sins may be wiped away,
Ac 3:20So that seasons of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord and that He may send the Christ, who has been previously appointed for you, Jesus,
Ac 3:21Whom heaven must indeed receive until the times of the restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of His holy prophets from of old.
Ac 3:22Moses said, “A Prophet will the Lord your God raise up unto you from your brothers, like me; Him shall you hear in whatever things He speaks to you.
Ac 3:23And it shall be that every soul who does not hear that Prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.”
Ac 3:24And also all the prophets, from Samuel and those in succession after him, as many as spoke, also announced these days.
Ac 3:25You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God covenanted with your fathers, saying to Abraham, “And in your seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.”
Ac 3:26To you first, God, having raised up His Servant, has sent Him to bless you in turning each of you away from your wicked deeds.
Ac 4:1And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,
Ac 4:2Being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and announcing in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
Ac 4:3And they laid their hands on them and placed them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.
Ac 4:4But many of those who heard the word believed; and the number of men came to about five thousand.
Ac 4:5And on the next day their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem,
Ac 4:6As well as Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander and as many as were of high-priestly descent.
Ac 4:7And they stood them in the midst and inquired, By what power or in what name did you do this?
Ac 4:8Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders,
Ac 4:9If we today are being examined regarding a good deed done to a sick man, by what means this man has been healed,
Ac 4:10Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified and whom God has raised from the dead, in this name this man stands before you in good health.
Ac 4:11This is the stone which was considered as nothing by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.
Ac 4:12And there is salvation in no other, for neither is there another name under heaven given among men in which we must be saved.
Ac 4:13And as they beheld the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated men and laymen, they marveled and they recognized them, that they had been with Jesus.
Ac 4:14And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against it.
Ac 4:15But they ordered them to go away outside the Sanhedrin and conferred with one another,
Ac 4:16Saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable sign has occurred through them is manifest to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
Ac 4:17But in order that this would not be spread further among the people, let us threaten them that they no longer speak based upon this name to anyone.
Ac 4:18And when they called them, they charged them not to utter anything at all nor teach based upon the name of Jesus.
Ac 4:19But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you judge;
Ac 4:20For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
Ac 4:21And when they had further threatened them, they released them, finding no way that they could punish them on account of the people, because they all were glorifying God for what had happened;
Ac 4:22For the man on whom this sign of healing had occurred was more than forty years old.
Ac 4:23And when they had been released, they went to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
Ac 4:24And when they heard this, they lifted up their voice with one accord to God and said, Sovereign Master, You are the One who has made heaven and earth and the sea and all things in them,
Ac 4:25Who, through the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David Your servant, has said, “Why did the Gentiles rage, and the peoples devise vain things?
Ac 4:26The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against His Christ.”
Ac 4:27For truly in this city there were gathered together against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,
Ac 4:28To do what Your hand and Your counsel predestined to take place.
Ac 4:29And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings and grant Your slaves to speak Your word with all boldness,
Ac 4:30While stretching out Your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may take place through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus.
Ac 4:31And when they had so besought, the place in which they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of God with boldness.
Ac 4:32And the heart and soul of the multitude of those who had believed was one; and not even one said that any of his possessions was his own, but all things were common to them.
Ac 4:33And with great power the apostles gave testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
Ac 4:34For neither was anyone among them in need; for as many as were owners of lands or of houses sold them and brought the proceeds of the things which were sold
Ac 4:35And placed them at the feet of the apostles; and it was distributed to each, as anyone had need.
Ac 4:36And Joseph, who was surnamed Barnabas by the apostles (which is translated, Son of encouragement), a Levite, a Cyprian by birth,
Ac 4:37Who possessed a field, sold it and brought the sum of money and placed it at the feet of the apostles.
Ac 5:1But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a piece of property
Ac 5:2And put aside for himself some of the proceeds, his wife also being aware of it. And he brought some part of it and laid it at the feet of the apostles.
Ac 5:3But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to deceive the Holy Spirit and to put aside for yourself some of the proceeds of the land?
Ac 5:4While it remained, was it not your own? And when it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why is it that you have contrived this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.
Ac 5:5And when Ananias heard these words, he fell down and expired; and great fear came upon all those who heard this.
Ac 5:6And the young men arose and wrapped him up; and carrying him out, they buried him.
Ac 5:7And it happened that after an interval of about three hours, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.
Ac 5:8And Peter answered her, Tell me whether you have sold the land for this much? And she said, Yes, for this much.
Ac 5:9And Peter said to her, Why is it that it was agreed between you two to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.
Ac 5:10And she fell down instantly at his feet and expired. And the young men came in and found her dead; and carrying her out, they buried her with her husband.
Ac 5:11And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all those who heard these things.
Ac 5:12And through the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders took place among the people; and they were all with one accord in the portico of Solomon.
Ac 5:13And none of the rest dared to join themselves to them, but the people magnified them.
Ac 5:14And believers were all the more being added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,
Ac 5:15So that they even carried the sick out into the streets and placed them on cots and mats, in order that when Peter came, at least his shadow might overshadow some of them.
Ac 5:16And the multitude from the cities surrounding Jerusalem also came together, carrying the sick and those troubled by unclean spirits, for such ones were all being healed.
Ac 5:17And the high priest and all those with him, the local sect of the Sadducees, rose up and were filled with jealousy;
Ac 5:18And they laid their hands on the apostles and put them in public custody.
Ac 5:19But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out, said,
Ac 5:20Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life.
Ac 5:21And when they heard this, they entered about daybreak into the temple and began to teach. And the high priest and those with him came up and called together the Sanhedrin, even all the council of elders of the sons of Israel, and sent men to the prison for them to be brought.
Ac 5:22But when the officers arrived, they did not find them in the prison; and they returned and reported,
Ac 5:23Saying, The prison we found locked with all security, and the guards standing at the doors; but when we opened the doors, we found no one inside.
Ac 5:24Now when they heard these words, both the captain of the temple and the chief priests were utterly perplexed concerning them as to what this would come to.
Ac 5:25And someone came up and reported to them, Behold, the men whom you put in the prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
Ac 5:26Then the captain with the officers went away and brought them without violence, for they feared the people, lest they would be stoned.
Ac 5:27And having brought them, they stood them in the Sanhedrin. And the high priest questioned them,
Ac 5:28Saying, We strictly charged you not to teach based upon this name; and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man’s blood upon us.
Ac 5:29But Peter and the apostles answered and said, It is necessary to obey God rather than men.
Ac 5:30The God of our fathers has raised Jesus, whom you slew by hanging Him on a tree.
Ac 5:31This One God has exalted to His right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
Ac 5:32And we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him.
Ac 5:33But when they heard this, they were exasperated and intended to do away with them.
Ac 5:34But a certain Pharisee in the Sanhedrin named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law honored by all the people, stood up and commanded that they put the men outside for a little while.
Ac 5:35And he said to them, Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves with regard to these men, in what you are about to do.
Ac 5:36For before these days Theudas rose up, saying that he was somebody, with whom a number of men, about four hundred, took sides. And he was done away with, and all who were persuaded by him were dispersed and came to nothing.
Ac 5:37After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the enrollment and drew away a group of people after him. And that man perished, and all who were persuaded by him were scattered.
Ac 5:38And now I say to you, withdraw from these men and leave them alone; for should this counsel or this work be of men, it will be overthrown;
Ac 5:39But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them, lest you be found to be even fighters against God.
Ac 5:40And they were persuaded by him. And having called the apostles to them, they beat them and charged them not to speak based upon the name of Jesus; and they released them.
Ac 5:41So they went from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to be dishonored on behalf of the Name.
Ac 5:42And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and announcing the gospel of Jesus as the Christ.
Ac 6:1And in these days, as the disciples were multiplying in number, a murmuring of the Hellenists against the Hebrews occurred, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily dispensing.
Ac 6:2And the twelve called the multitude of the disciples to them and said, It is not fitting for us to forsake the word of God and serve tables.
Ac 6:3But brothers, look for seven well-attested men from among you, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint over this need.
Ac 6:4But we will continue steadfastly in prayer and in the ministry of the word.
Ac 6:5And the word pleased all the multitude; and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus and Nicanor and Timon and Parmenas and Nicolas, a proselyte of Antioch,
Ac 6:6Whom they set before the apostles; and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
Ac 6:7And the word of God grew, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem multiplied greatly; and a large number of the priests obeyed the faith.
Ac 6:8And Stephen, full of grace and power, did great wonders and signs among the people.
Ac 6:9But some of those of the synagogue which is called the synagogue of the Libertines and of the Cyrenians and of the Alexandrians and of those from Cilicia and Asia rose up and disputed with Stephen;
Ac 6:10Yet they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he spoke.
Ac 6:11Then they instigated some men to say, We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God.
Ac 6:12And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and seized him and led him to the Sanhedrin.
Ac 6:13And they set up false witnesses, saying, This man does not cease speaking words against this holy place and the law,
Ac 6:14For we have heard him saying that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us.
Ac 6:15And all those sitting in the Sanhedrin looked intently at him and saw his face as though it were the face of an angel.
Ac 7:1And the high priest said, Are these things so?
Ac 7:2And he said, Men, brothers and fathers, listen. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham while he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran,
Ac 7:3And said to him, “Come out from your land and from your relatives, and come into the land which I will show you.”
Ac 7:4Then he came forth from the land of the Chaldeans and dwelt in Haran. And from there, after his father died, He removed him into this land, in which you now dwell.
Ac 7:5Yet He did not give him an inheritance in it, not even a place to set his foot on; and He promised to give it to him for a possession and to his seed after him, while he had no child.
Ac 7:6And God spoke in this way, that his seed would be a sojourner in a foreign land, and they would enslave them and mistreat them four hundred years.
Ac 7:7“And whatever nation they will serve as slaves I will judge,” said God, “and after these things they will come forth and serve Me as priests in this place.”
Ac 7:8And He gave to him a covenant of circumcision; and thus Abraham begot Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac, Jacob; and Jacob, the twelve patriarchs.
Ac 7:9And the patriarchs became jealous of Joseph and sold him into Egypt; yet God was with him
Ac 7:10And rescued him out of all his afflictions and granted him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and he appointed him governor over Egypt and over all his house.
Ac 7:11And a famine came over all Egypt and Canaan as well as great affliction; and our fathers could find no sustenance.
Ac 7:12But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our fathers out the first time.
Ac 7:13And during the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph’s race became manifest to Pharaoh.
Ac 7:14And Joseph sent word and called for Jacob his father and all his family, seventy-five souls in all.
Ac 7:15And Jacob went down into Egypt; and he ended his days, he and our fathers.
Ac 7:16And they were carried over to Shechem and placed in the tomb which Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
Ac 7:17But as the time of the promise which God had assured to Abraham drew near, the people grew and were multiplied in Egypt,
Ac 7:18Until another king rose up over Egypt who did not know of Joseph.
Ac 7:19This one dealt craftily with our race and mistreated our fathers, so that they threw out their babies in order that they would not be kept alive.
Ac 7:20At this time Moses was born and was lovely to God. And he was nurtured three months in his father’s house.
Ac 7:21And when he was thrown out, Pharaoh’s daughter took him up and nurtured him as a son for herself.
Ac 7:22And Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was powerful in his words and works.
Ac 7:23But when he was approaching forty years of age, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the sons of Israel.
Ac 7:24And when he saw one of them being wronged, he defended him, and he avenged him who was being oppressed by striking the Egyptian dead.
Ac 7:25And he supposed that his brothers understood that God through his hand was giving salvation to them; but they did not understand.
Ac 7:26And on the following day he appeared to them as they were fighting and tried to reconcile them in peace, saying, Men, you are brothers. Why are you wronging one another?
Ac 7:27But the one who was wronging his neighbor pushed him away, saying, “Who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us?
Ac 7:28Do you want to do away with me the same way you did away with the Egyptian yesterday?”
Ac 7:29And Moses fled at this word and became a sojourner in the land of Midian, where he begot two sons.
Ac 7:30And when forty years had been fulfilled, an Angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai in the flame of a thornbush fire.
Ac 7:31And when Moses saw it, he marveled at the vision; and as he approached to examine it, there came the voice of the Lord:
Ac 7:32“I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob.” And Moses trembled and dared not examine it.
Ac 7:33And the Lord said to him, “Untie the sandals from your feet, for the place on which you stand is holy ground.
Ac 7:34I have surely seen the ill-treatment of My people who are in Egypt and have heard their groaning, and I have come down to rescue them. And now, come, I will send you into Egypt.”
Ac 7:35This Moses, whom they refused, saying, Who appointed you a ruler and a judge? this one God has sent as both a ruler and a redeemer, along with the hand of the Angel who appeared to him in the thornbush.
Ac 7:36This man led them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt and in the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years.
Ac 7:37This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, “A Prophet will God raise up unto you from your brothers, like me.”
Ac 7:38This is the one who was in the assembly in the wilderness with the Angel who spoke to him in Mount Sinai and with our fathers, and who received living oracles to give to us.
Ac 7:39To him our fathers were not willing to become obedient, but thrust him away and turned in their hearts to Egypt,
Ac 7:40Saying to Aaron, “Make gods for us who will go before us; for this Moses, who has led us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has happened to him.”
Ac 7:41And they made a calf in those days and brought up a sacrifice to the idol and were glad with the works of their hands.
Ac 7:42But God turned and delivered them up to serve the host of heaven, even as it is written in the book of the prophets, “Did you offer slain beasts and sacrifices to Me for forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
Ac 7:43And you took up the tabernacle of Moloch and the star of your god Rompha, the images which you made to worship. And I will carry you away beyond Babylon.”
Ac 7:44The Tabernacle of the Testimony was with our fathers in the wilderness, even as He who spoke to Moses instructed him to make it, according to the pattern which he had seen.
Ac 7:45This tabernacle our fathers, having in their turn received, also brought in with Joshua when they took possession of the nations, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers until the days of David,
Ac 7:46Who found favor before God and asked to find a habitation for the God of Jacob.
Ac 7:47But Solomon built Him a house.
Ac 7:48Yet the Most High does not dwell in that which is made by hands, even as the prophet says,
Ac 7:49“Heaven is My throne, and the earth is a footstool for My feet. What kind of house will you build for Me, says the Lord, or what is the place of My rest?
Ac 7:50Has not My hand made all these things?”
Ac 7:51You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in hearts and ears, you always oppose the Holy Spirit; as your fathers did, you also do.
Ac 7:52Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand concerning the coming of the righteous One, whose betrayers and murderers you have now become,
Ac 7:53You who received the law as ordinances of angels and did not keep it.
Ac 7:54Now as they heard these things, they were exasperated and gnashed their teeth at him.
Ac 7:55But being full of the Holy Spirit, he looked intently into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God;
Ac 7:56And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened up and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.
Ac 7:57But they cried out with a loud voice and covered their ears and rushed upon him with one accord.
Ac 7:58And they threw him outside of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man called Saul.
Ac 7:59And they stoned Stephen as he called upon the Lord and said, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!
Ac 7:60And kneeling down, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
Ac 8:1And Saul approved of his killing. And there occurred in that day a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Ac 8:2And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him.
Ac 8:3But Saul was devastating the church, entering house after house; and dragging off men and women, he delivered them to prison.
Ac 8:4Those therefore who were scattered went throughout the land announcing the word as the gospel.
Ac 8:5And Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed the Christ to them.
Ac 8:6And the crowds gave heed with one accord to the things said by Philip as they heard and saw the signs which he did.
Ac 8:7For with many of those who had unclean spirits, the spirits came out crying with a loud voice; and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed.
Ac 8:8And there was much joy in that city.
Ac 8:9And a certain man named Simon had previously been practicing magic in the city and had been amazing the people of Samaria, saying that he was someone great.
Ac 8:10To him they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God which is called Great.
Ac 8:11And they gave heed to him because for a considerable time he had amazed them with his magic.
Ac 8:12But when they believed Philip, who announced the gospel of the kingdom of God and of the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
Ac 8:13And even Simon himself believed, and once he had been baptized, he continued steadfastly with Philip. And as he beheld the signs and great works of power taking place, he was amazed.
Ac 8:14Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John,
Ac 8:15Who went down and prayed for them so that they might receive the Holy Spirit;
Ac 8:16For He had not yet fallen upon any of them, but they had only been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
Ac 8:17Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
Ac 8:18But when Simon saw that through the laying on of the hands of the apostles the Spirit was given, he offered them money, saying,
Ac 8:19Give me also this authority that on whomever I lay my hands he may receive the Holy Spirit.
Ac 8:20But Peter said to him, May your silver go with you into destruction, because you thought that you would acquire the gift of God through money.
Ac 8:21You have no part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not straight before God.
Ac 8:22Repent therefore from this wickedness of yours and beseech the Lord if perhaps the intent of your heart may be forgiven you;
Ac 8:23For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of unrighteousness.
Ac 8:24And Simon answered and said, You beseech the Lord on my behalf, so that none of the things which you have spoken may come upon me.
Ac 8:25They therefore, having solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem; and they announced the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
Ac 8:26But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Rise up and go south on the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is the desert route.
Ac 8:27And he rose up and went. And behold, an Ethiopian man, a eunuch, a man in power under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, had come to Jerusalem to worship.
Ac 8:28And he was returning and was sitting in his chariot and reading the prophet Isaiah.
Ac 8:29And the Spirit said to Philip, Approach and join this chariot.
Ac 8:30And when Philip ran up, he heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and said, Do you really know the things that you are reading?
Ac 8:31And he said, How could I unless someone guides me? And he entreated Philip to come up and sit with him.
Ac 8:32Now the passage of Scripture which he was reading was this: “As a sheep He was led to slaughter; and as a lamb before its shearer is dumb, so He does not open His mouth.
Ac 8:33In His humiliation His judgment was taken away. Who shall declare His generation? For His life is taken away from the earth.”
Ac 8:34And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I beseech you, Concerning whom does the prophet say this? Concerning himself or concerning someone else?
Ac 8:35And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture he announced Jesus as the gospel to him.
Ac 8:36And as they were going along the road, they came upon some water, and the eunuch said, Look, water. What prevents me from being baptized?
Ac 8:37And Philip said, If you believe from all your heart, you will be saved. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
Ac 8:38And he ordered the chariot to stand still, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
Ac 8:39And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away; and the eunuch did not see him anymore, for he went on his way rejoicing.
Ac 8:40But Philip was found in Azotus; and passing through, he announced the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea.
Ac 9:1But Saul, still breathing threatening and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
Ac 9:2And asked for letters from him to Damascus for the synagogues, so that if he found any who were of the Way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
Ac 9:3And as he went, he drew near to Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.
Ac 9:4And he fell on the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?
Ac 9:5And he said, Who are You, Lord? And He said, I am Jesus, whom you persecute.
Ac 9:6But rise up and enter into the city, and it will be told to you what you must do.
Ac 9:7And the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one.
Ac 9:8And Saul rose from the ground; and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. And they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.
Ac 9:9And he was three days without seeing, and he neither ate nor drank.
Ac 9:10And there was a certain disciple in Damascus named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord.
Ac 9:11And the Lord said to him, Rise up and go to the lane called Straight, and seek in the house of Judas a man from Tarsus named Saul; for behold, he is praying;
Ac 9:12And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and laying his hands on him so that he may receive his sight.
Ac 9:13But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many concerning this man, how many evil things he has done to Your saints in Jerusalem;
Ac 9:14And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call upon Your name.
Ac 9:15But the Lord said to him, Go, for this man is a chosen vessel to Me, to bear My name before both the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel;
Ac 9:16For I will show him how many things he must suffer on behalf of My name.
Ac 9:17And Ananias went away and entered into the house; and laying his hands on him, he said, Saul, brother, the Lord has sent me — Jesus, who appeared to you on the road on which you were coming — so that you may receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.
Ac 9:18And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he received his sight and rose up and was baptized.
Ac 9:19And once he had taken food, he was strengthened. And he was with the disciples in Damascus for some days.
Ac 9:20And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, that this One is the Son of God.
Ac 9:21And all who heard him were amazed and said, Is this not the one who ravaged those who call upon this name in Jerusalem and came here for this, that he might bring them bound before the chief priests?
Ac 9:22But Saul was all the more empowered, and he confounded the Jews dwelling in Damascus by proving that this One is the Christ.
Ac 9:23And as a considerable number of days were being fulfilled, the Jews took counsel together to do away with him;
Ac 9:24But their plot was made known to Saul. And they also watched the gates closely, both day and night, so that they might do away with him.
Ac 9:25But his disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket.
Ac 9:26And when he arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; yet all feared him, not believing that he was a disciple.
Ac 9:27But Barnabas took hold of him and led him to the apostles, and he related to them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
Ac 9:28And he was with them, going in and going out in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord.
Ac 9:29And he spoke and disputed with the Hellenists, but they attempted to do away with him.
Ac 9:30But when the brothers realized it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him forth to Tarsus.
Ac 9:31So then the church throughout the whole of Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, being built up; and going on in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it was multiplied.
Ac 9:32Now as Peter was passing through all those parts, he came down also to the saints dwelling at Lydda.
Ac 9:33And he found there a certain man named Aeneas, who for eight years had been lying on a mat, for he was paralyzed.
Ac 9:34And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Rise up and make up your own bed. And immediately he rose up.
Ac 9:35And all those dwelling in Lydda and Sharon saw him; and they turned to the Lord.
Ac 9:36Now in Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha (which, when translated, is Dorcas); this woman was full of good works and alms which she did.
Ac 9:37And in those days she became ill and died; and they bathed her body and laid it in an upper room.
Ac 9:38Now because Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples heard that Peter was there, and they sent two men to him, entreating him, Do not delay to come through to us.
Ac 9:39And Peter rose up and went with them. When he arrived, they led him up into the upper room. And all the widows stood by him, weeping and showing him tunics and garments, all of which Dorcas had made while she was with them.
Ac 9:40And Peter put them all outside; and kneeling down, he prayed; and he turned to the body and said, Tabitha, rise up. And she opened her eyes; and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
Ac 9:41And giving her his hand, he raised her up. And when he had called the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
Ac 9:42And it became known throughout all of Joppa and many believed on the Lord.
Ac 9:43And he remained a considerable number of days in Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner.
Ac 10:1Now there was in Caesarea a certain man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian cohort,
Ac 10:2Devout and one who feared God with all his household, giving many alms to the people and beseeching God continually.
Ac 10:3He saw clearly in a vision around the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming in to him and saying to him, Cornelius.
Ac 10:4And he looked intently at him and became terrified and said, What is it, Lord? And he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God.
Ac 10:5And now send men to Joppa and send for a certain Simon, who is surnamed Peter;
Ac 10:6This man is lodging with a certain Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea.
Ac 10:7And when the angel who was speaking to him went away, he called two of his household servants and a devout soldier of those who waited on him;
Ac 10:8And relating all things to them, he sent them to Joppa.
Ac 10:9And on the next day as they were journeying and drawing near to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray around the sixth hour.
Ac 10:10And he became very hungry and wanted to eat. And while they were preparing, a trance came upon him;
Ac 10:11And he beheld heaven opened, and a certain vessel like a great sheet descending, being let down by four corners onto the earth,
Ac 10:12In which were all the four-footed animals and reptiles of the earth and birds of heaven.
Ac 10:13And a voice came to him: Rise up, Peter; slay and eat!
Ac 10:14But Peter said, By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common and unclean.
Ac 10:15And a voice came to him again a second time: The things that God has cleansed, do not make common.
Ac 10:16And this occurred three times; and immediately the vessel was taken up into heaven.
Ac 10:17Now as Peter was utterly perplexed in himself as to what the vision which he had seen might be, behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made diligent inquiry for Simon’s house, stood at the gate.
Ac 10:18And they called out and inquired whether Simon, who is surnamed Peter, was lodging there.
Ac 10:19And while Peter was pondering over the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, there are three men seeking you.
Ac 10:20But rise up, go down and go with them, doubting nothing, because I have sent them.
Ac 10:21And Peter went down to the men and said, Behold, I am he whom you seek; what is the cause for which you have come?
Ac 10:22And they said, Cornelius, a centurion, a righteous man and one who fears God and is well attested to by the whole nation of the Jews, was divinely instructed by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and hear words from you.
Ac 10:23So he called them in and lodged them. And on the next day he rose up and went away with them; and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
Ac 10:24And on the next day they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius was awaiting them, having called together his relatives and intimate friends.
Ac 10:25And when Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and falling at his feet, worshipped him.
Ac 10:26But Peter raised him up, saying, Rise up; I myself am also a man.
Ac 10:27And as he talked with him, he entered and found many who had come together.
Ac 10:28And he said to them, You understand that it is unlawful for a man who is a Jew to join himself to or come near one of another race; yet God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean.
Ac 10:29Hence, even without objection I came when I had been sent for. I ask therefore, For what reason have you sent for me?
Ac 10:30And Cornelius said, Four days ago to this hour I was praying at the ninth hour in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
Ac 10:31And he said, Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God.
Ac 10:32Send therefore to Joppa and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter; this man is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea.
Ac 10:33Therefore I sent men at once to you, and you have done nobly in coming. Now therefore we all are present before God to hear all the things that have been commanded to you by the Lord.
Ac 10:34And opening his mouth, Peter said, In truth I perceive that God is not a respecter of persons,
Ac 10:35But in every nation he who fears Him and works righteousness is acceptable to Him.
Ac 10:36The word which He sent to the sons of Israel in announcing the gospel of peace through Jesus Christ (this One is Lord of all)
Ac 10:37You yourselves know, the word which has been spoken throughout the whole of Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John proclaimed:
Ac 10:38Jesus, the One from Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all those who were being oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him.
Ac 10:39And we are witnesses of all the things which He did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem; whom also they did away with by hanging Him on a tree.
Ac 10:40This One, God raised on the third day; and He has made Him manifest,
Ac 10:41Not to all the people, but to witnesses appointed beforehand by God, to us, ones who ate and drank with Him after He rose from the dead.
Ac 10:42And He has charged us to proclaim to the people and solemnly testify that this is the One who was designated by God to be the Judge of the living and the dead.
Ac 10:43To this One all the prophets testify that through His name everyone who believes into Him will receive forgiveness of sins.
Ac 10:44While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those hearing the word.
Ac 10:45And the believers who were of the circumcision, as many as had accompanied Peter, were amazed, because on the Gentiles also the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out;
Ac 10:46For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter answered,
Ac 10:47Can anyone forbid the water so that these would not be baptized, who have received the Holy Spirit even as we?
Ac 10:48And he charged them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.
Ac 11:1And the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
Ac 11:2And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision disputed with him,
Ac 11:3Saying, You went in to men who are uncircumcised and ate with them.
Ac 11:4And Peter began, and he explained to them in sequence, saying,
Ac 11:5I was in the city of Joppa praying, and I saw in a trance a vision, a certain vessel like a great sheet descending, being let down by four corners out of heaven; and it came unto me.
Ac 11:6Looking intently into it, I examined it and saw the four-footed animals of the earth and the wild beasts and the reptiles and the birds of heaven.
Ac 11:7And I also heard a voice saying to me, Rise up, Peter; slay and eat!
Ac 11:8But I said, By no means, Lord, for no common or unclean thing has ever entered into my mouth.
Ac 11:9And a voice answered a second time out of heaven, The things that God has cleansed, do not make common.
Ac 11:10And this occurred three times, and everything was drawn up again into heaven.
Ac 11:11And behold, at that moment three men stood at the house in which we were, having been sent from Caesarea to me.
Ac 11:12And the Spirit told me to go with them, doubting nothing. And these six brothers went with me also; and we entered into the man’s house.
Ac 11:13And he reported to us how he saw the angel standing in his house and saying, Send men to Joppa and send for Simon, who is surnamed Peter,
Ac 11:14Who will speak words to you by which you shall be saved, you and all your house.
Ac 11:15And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as also on us in the beginning.
Ac 11:16And I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit.
Ac 11:17If therefore God has given to them the equal gift as also to us who have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could have forbidden God?
Ac 11:18And when they heard these things, they became silent and glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has given repentance unto life.
Ac 11:19Those then who were scattered by the tribulation which took place on account of Stephen passed through as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews only.
Ac 11:20But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and spoke also to the Greeks, announcing the Lord Jesus as the gospel.
Ac 11:21And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord.
Ac 11:22And the account concerning them was heard in the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to pass through as far as Antioch,
Ac 11:23Who, when he arrived and saw the grace of God, rejoiced and encouraged them all to remain with the Lord with purpose of heart;
Ac 11:24For he was a good man and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a considerable number was added to the Lord.
Ac 11:25And he went forth to Tarsus to search for Saul;
Ac 11:26And when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it happened with them that for a whole year they were gathered in the church and taught a considerable number and that the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
Ac 11:27And in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
Ac 11:28And one of them named Agabus rose up and signified through the Spirit that there was about to be a great famine over the whole inhabited earth, which occurred during the time of Claudius.
Ac 11:29And the disciples, according to how one was prospered, determined, each one of them, to send things for dispensing to the brothers dwelling in Judea,
Ac 11:30Which also they did, sending it to the elders through the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Ac 12:1Now about that time Herod the king laid hands on some from the church in order to mistreat them.
Ac 12:2And he did away with James, the brother of John, with the sword.
Ac 12:3And when he saw that it was pleasing to the Jews, he went on to arrest Peter also (now those were the days of Unleavened Bread),
Ac 12:4Whom also he seized and put in prison, delivering him to four quaternions of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.
Ac 12:5So then Peter was kept in the prison; but prayer was being made fervently by the church to God concerning him.
Ac 12:6And when Herod was about to bring him forward, that night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains; and guards before the door were keeping the prison.
Ac 12:7And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shined in the cell; and he struck Peter’s side and roused him, saying, Rise up quickly. And his chains fell off his hands.
Ac 12:8And the angel said to him, Gird yourself and tie on your sandals. And he did so. And he said to him, Throw your cloak around you and follow me.
Ac 12:9And he went out and followed him; yet he did not know that what was taking place through the angel was real, but thought that he was seeing a vision.
Ac 12:10And passing the first guard and the second, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city, which opened of itself to them. And going out, they went forward one lane; and immediately the angel departed from him.
Ac 12:11And Peter came to himself and said, Now I know truly that the Lord has sent forth His angel and rescued me out of Herod’s hand and from all the expectation of the Jewish people.
Ac 12:12And when he became aware of this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, who was surnamed Mark, where there was a considerable number assembled together and praying.
Ac 12:13And when he knocked at the door of the entry, a maiden named Rhoda came to listen.
Ac 12:14And when she recognized Peter’s voice, she did not open the gate for joy, but ran in and reported that Peter was standing before the entry.
Ac 12:15But they said to her, You are crazy! But she insisted that it was so. And they said, It is his angel.
Ac 12:16But Peter continued knocking; and when they had opened the gate, they saw him and were beside themselves.
Ac 12:17And motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he related to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison, and he said, Report these things to James and the brothers. And going out, he went to another place.
Ac 12:18Now when it became day, there was no small disturbance among the soldiers, they not knowing what had become of Peter.
Ac 12:19And when Herod searched for him and did not find him, he examined the guards and ordered that they be led off to execution. And he went down from Judea to Caesarea and spent time there.
Ac 12:20Now he was furious with the Tyrians and Sidonians. And they came to him with one accord; and having persuaded Blastus, the king’s chamberlain, they asked for peace, because their country was fed from the king’s country.
Ac 12:21And on an appointed day Herod arrayed himself in royal clothing and sat on the judgment seat; and he delivered a public address to them.
Ac 12:22And the populace cried out, The voice of a god and not of a man!
Ac 12:23And instantly an angel of the Lord struck him because he did not give the glory to God; and he was eaten by worms and expired.
Ac 12:24But the word of God grew and multiplied.
Ac 12:25And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, having completed the dispensing; and they took along with them John, who was surnamed Mark.
Ac 13:1Now there were in Antioch, in the local church, prophets and teachers: Barnabas and Simeon, who was called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrenian, and Manaen, the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Ac 13:2And as they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for Me now Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.
Ac 13:3Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.
Ac 13:4They then, having been sent out by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia; and from there they sailed away to Cyprus.
Ac 13:5And when they were in Salamis, they announced the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they also had John as their attendant.
Ac 13:6And when they had passed through the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician and Jewish false prophet, whose name was Bar-jesus,
Ac 13:7Who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man; the latter called Barnabas and Saul to him and sought to hear the word of God.
Ac 13:8But Elymas the magician (for so his name is translated) opposed them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.
Ac 13:9But Saul, who is also Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
Ac 13:10And said, O you who are full of all deceit and all unscrupulousness, son of the devil, enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease perverting the straight ways of the Lord?
Ac 13:11And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And instantly a mist and a darkness fell upon him; and he went about and sought some to lead him by the hand.
Ac 13:12Then the proconsul, seeing what had happened, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord.
Ac 13:13And putting out to sea from Paphos, Paul and his companions came to Perga of Pamphylia; and John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.
Ac 13:14And they passed through from Perga and arrived at Pisidian Antioch. And they went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down.
Ac 13:15And after the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the synagogue rulers sent word to them, saying, Men, brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it.
Ac 13:16And Paul, rising up and motioning with his hand, said, Men of Israel and those who fear God, listen.
Ac 13:17The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and exalted the people during their sojourn in the land of Egypt, and with a high arm He led them out of it.
Ac 13:18And for a time of about forty years He carried them as a nurse in the wilderness.
Ac 13:19And when He had overthrown seven nations in the land of Canaan, He distributed their land as an inheritance.
Ac 13:20And after these things, for about four hundred and fifty years, He gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.
Ac 13:21And afterward they asked for a king; and God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
Ac 13:22And when He had deposed him, He raised up David for them as king, to whom also He testified and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man according to My heart, who will do all My will.
Ac 13:23From this man’s seed, God, according to promise, brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus,
Ac 13:24After John had proclaimed, prior to His public entrance, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Ac 13:25Now as John was completing his course, he said, What do you suppose that I am? I am not the Christ. But behold, One is coming after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.
Ac 13:26Men, brothers, sons of the race of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to us the word of this salvation has been sent forth.
Ac 13:27For those dwelling in Jerusalem and their rulers, being ignorant of this One and of the words of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by judging Him.
Ac 13:28And though they did not find one cause of death in Him, they asked of Pilate that He be done away with.
Ac 13:29And when they had accomplished all that was written concerning Him, they took Him down from the tree and laid Him in a tomb.
Ac 13:30But God raised Him from the dead.
Ac 13:31And for many days He appeared to those who had come up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now His witnesses to the people.
Ac 13:32And we announce to you the gospel of the promise made to the fathers,
Ac 13:33That God has fully fulfilled this promise to us their children in raising up Jesus, as it is also written in the second Psalm, “You are My Son; this day have I begotten You.”
Ac 13:34And as to His having raised Him up from the dead, no longer to return to corruption, He spoke in this way, “I will give you the holy things of David, the faithful things.”
Ac 13:35Therefore He also says in another place, “You will not allow Your Holy One to see corruption.”
Ac 13:36Now David, having served his own generation by the counsel of God, did indeed fall asleep and was buried with his fathers and saw corruption;
Ac 13:37But He whom God has raised did not see corruption.
Ac 13:38Therefore let it be known to you, men, brothers, that through this One forgiveness of sins is announced to you;
Ac 13:39And from all the things from which you were not able to be justified by the law of Moses, in this One everyone who believes is justified.
Ac 13:40Therefore beware that what is spoken in the prophets does not come upon you:
Ac 13:41“Look, you despisers, and marvel, and vanish away; for I am doing a work in your days, a work which you will by no means believe, though someone tells it to you in detail.”
Ac 13:42And as Paul and Barnabas were going out, the people begged that these words would be spoken to them on the next Sabbath.
Ac 13:43And when the synagogue gathering had been dismissed, many of the Jews and the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who spoke to them and urged them to continue in the grace of God.
Ac 13:44And on the following Sabbath almost all the city gathered together to hear the word of God.
Ac 13:45But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and contradicted the things being spoken by Paul and blasphemed.
Ac 13:46And Paul and Barnabas spoke boldly and said, It was necessary for the word of God to be spoken to you first. Since you thrust it away and do not judge yourselves worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
Ac 13:47For so the Lord has commanded us, “I have set you as a light of the Gentiles, that you would be for salvation unto the uttermost part of the earth.”
Ac 13:48And the Gentiles, hearing this, rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord; and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
Ac 13:49And the word of the Lord was carried through the whole region.
Ac 13:50But the Jews incited the women of high standing who worshipped God, and the chief men of the city, and raised up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas and cast them out from their borders.
Ac 13:51But they shook off the dust of their feet against them and came to Iconium.
Ac 13:52And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
Ac 14:1And in Iconium they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews and spoke in such a way that a great multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed.
Ac 14:2But the Jews who were disobedient stirred up and ill-affected the minds of the Gentiles against the brothers.
Ac 14:3Therefore they spent a considerable amount of time speaking with boldness in the Lord, who testified to the word of His grace by granting signs and wonders to be done through their hands.
Ac 14:4But the multitude of the city was divided, and some were with the Jews and some with the apostles.
Ac 14:5And when a hostile attempt was made by both the Gentiles and Jews with their rulers to treat the apostles outrageously and to stone them,
Ac 14:6They became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surrounding region.
Ac 14:7And there they announced the gospel.
Ac 14:8And in Lystra a certain man was sitting, without strength in his feet, lame from his mother’s womb, who had never walked.
Ac 14:9This man heard Paul speaking, who, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be healed,
Ac 14:10Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet. And he leaped up and began to walk.
Ac 14:11And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice, saying in Lycaonian, The gods have become like men and have come down to us.
Ac 14:12And they called Barnabas, Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, since he was the one who took the lead in the discourse.
Ac 14:13And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was before the city, brought bulls and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer a sacrifice with the crowds.
Ac 14:14But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard this, they tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd, crying out
Ac 14:15And saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like feeling as you, and announce the gospel to you that you should turn from these vain things to the living God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all things in them;
Ac 14:16Who in the generations gone by allowed all the nations to go their ways.
Ac 14:17And yet He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good by giving you rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and gladness.
Ac 14:18And saying these things, they restrained the crowds only with difficulty from offering sacrifices to them.
Ac 14:19But Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there; and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city, supposing that he was dead.
Ac 14:20But as the disciples surrounded him, he rose up and entered into the city. And on the next day he went out with Barnabas to Derbe.
Ac 14:21And when they had announced the gospel to that city and had made a considerable number of disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch,
Ac 14:22Establishing the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith and saying that through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God.
Ac 14:23And when they had appointed elders for them in every church and had prayed with fastings, they committed them to the Lord into whom they had believed.
Ac 14:24And they passed through Pisidia and came to Pamphylia.
Ac 14:25And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they came down to Attalia.
Ac 14:26And from there they sailed away to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.
Ac 14:27And when they arrived and gathered the church together, they declared the things that God had done with them and that He had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
Ac 14:28And they spent no little time there with the disciples.
Ac 15:1And certain men came down from Judea and began to teach the brothers, Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.
Ac 15:2And when no little dissension and discussion with them came about through Paul and Barnabas, the brothers directed Paul and Barnabas and certain others among them to go up to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem concerning this question.
Ac 15:3They therefore, having been sent forward by the church, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, telling in detail about the turning of the Gentiles; and they brought great joy to all the brothers.
Ac 15:4And when they arrived in Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared the things that God had done with them.
Ac 15:5But certain men from the sect of the Pharisees who had believed rose up from among them, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them and to charge them to keep the law of Moses.
Ac 15:6And the apostles and the elders were gathered together to see about this matter.
Ac 15:7And when much discussion had taken place, Peter rose up and said to them, Men, brothers, you know that from the early days God chose from among you that through my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
Ac 15:8And God, the Knower of hearts, bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit even as also to us;
Ac 15:9And He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith.
Ac 15:10Therefore why are you now testing God by placing a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
Ac 15:11But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus we are saved in the same way also as they are.
Ac 15:12And all the multitude became silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul relating all the signs and wonders God had done among the Gentiles through them.
Ac 15:13And when they finished speaking, James answered, saying, Men, brothers, listen to me.
Ac 15:14Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take out from them a people for His name.
Ac 15:15And with this the words of the prophets agree, even as it is written,
Ac 15:16“After these things I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David which has fallen; and I will rebuild its ruins and erect it again,
Ac 15:17So that the remainder of men may seek out the Lord, even all the Gentiles upon whom My name has been called,
Ac 15:18Says the Lord, who is making these things known from of old.”
Ac 15:19Therefore I judge that we do not harass those from the Gentiles who are turning to God,
Ac 15:20But that we write to them to abstain from the contaminations of idols and fornication and what is strangled and blood.
Ac 15:21For Moses from ancient generations has in every city those who proclaim him in the synagogues, he being read every Sabbath.
Ac 15:22It then seemed good to the apostles and the elders with the whole church to choose men from among them to send to Antioch together with Paul and Barnabas: Judas, who is called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers,
Ac 15:23Writing to them and sending by their hand the following: The apostles and the elder brothers, to the brothers throughout Antioch and Syria and Cilicia who are of the Gentiles, rejoice.
Ac 15:24Since we have heard that certain ones who went out from among us have troubled you with their words, unsettling your souls, to whom we gave no instruction,
Ac 15:25It seemed good to us, having become of one accord, to choose men to send to you together with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
Ac 15:26Men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Ac 15:27Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will report the same things by word of mouth.
Ac 15:28For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:
Ac 15:29To abstain from things that have been sacrificed to idols and blood and things strangled and fornication, from which if you carefully keep yourselves, you will do well. May you be strong.
Ac 15:30So when they had been sent away, they went down to Antioch; and when they had gathered the multitude together, they handed them the letter.
Ac 15:31And when they read it, they rejoiced at the encouragement.
Ac 15:32And Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, exhorted the brothers through much speaking and confirmed them.
Ac 15:33And when they had spent some time there, they were sent away with peace from the brothers to those who had sent them.
Ac 15:34But it seemed good to Silas to remain there.
Ac 15:35And Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and announcing the word of the Lord as the gospel with many others also.
Ac 15:36Now after some days Paul said to Barnabas, Let us return now and visit the brothers in every city in which we announced the word of the Lord, and see how they are doing.
Ac 15:37And Barnabas intended to take John, who is called Mark, along with them also;
Ac 15:38But Paul did not consider it suitable to take with them this one who withdrew from them in Pamphylia and did not go with them to the work.
Ac 15:39And there was a sharp contention, so that they separated from each other; and Barnabas, taking Mark along, sailed away to Cyprus.
Ac 15:40But Paul chose Silas and went out, having been commended to the grace of the Lord by the brothers.
Ac 15:41And he passed through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.
Ac 16:1And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple named Timothy was there, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but of a Greek father;
Ac 16:2He was well attested to by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium.
Ac 16:3Paul wanted this one to go forth with him; and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
Ac 16:4And as they went through the cities, they delivered to them the decrees to keep which had been decided upon by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem.
Ac 16:5And so the churches were strengthened in the faith and increased in number daily.
Ac 16:6And they passed through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
Ac 16:7And when they had come to Mysia, they tried to go into Bithynia, yet the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them.
Ac 16:8And bypassing Mysia, they came down to Troas.
Ac 16:9And a vision appeared to Paul during the night: A certain man, a Macedonian, was standing and entreating him and saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us.
Ac 16:10And when he had seen the vision, we immediately endeavored to go forth into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to announce the gospel to them.
Ac 16:11And putting out to sea from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and on the following day to Neapolis,
Ac 16:12And from there to Philippi, which is the leading city of that part of Macedonia, a Roman colony; and we spent some days in this city.
Ac 16:13And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate by the river, where we supposed there would be a place of prayer; and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
Ac 16:14And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple-dyed goods from the city of Thyatira who worshipped God, was listening, whose heart the Lord opened to give heed to the things being spoken by Paul.
Ac 16:15And when she was baptized, as well as her household, she entreated us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide. And she constrained us.
Ac 16:16And as we were going to the place of prayer, a certain slave girl having a spirit of Python met us, who brought her masters much profit by divining.
Ac 16:17This woman followed after Paul and us and cried out, saying, These men are slaves of the Most High God, who announce to you a way of salvation.
Ac 16:18And she did this for many days. But Paul was greatly disturbed; and turning, he said to the spirit, I charge you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out that very hour.
Ac 16:19But when her masters saw that their hope of profit had gone out, they laid hold of Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers.
Ac 16:20And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, These men, being Jews, are throwing our city into confusion,
Ac 16:21And they are announcing customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to accept or do.
Ac 16:22And the crowd rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their garments and ordered some to beat them with rods.
Ac 16:23And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them securely,
Ac 16:24Who, having received such a charge, threw them into the inner prison and secured their feet in the stocks.
Ac 16:25And about midnight Paul and Silas, while praying, sang hymns of praise to God; and the prisoners were listening to them.
Ac 16:26And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison house were shaken. And instantly all the doors were opened and everyone’s bonds were unfastened.
Ac 16:27And the jailer, waking up out of his sleep and seeing the doors of the prison opened, drew his sword and was about to do away with himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
Ac 16:28But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying, Do no harm to yourself, for we are all here.
Ac 16:29And the jailer asked for lights and rushed in; and trembling, he fell down before Paul and Silas.
Ac 16:30And leading them outside, he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
Ac 16:31And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus, and you shall be saved, you and your household.
Ac 16:32And they spoke the word of God to him together with all those in his house.
Ac 16:33And he took them with him in that very hour of the night and washed their wounds. And he was baptized immediately, he and all his household.
Ac 16:34And he brought them up into his house and set a table before them; and he exulted because he had believed in God with all his household.
Ac 16:35Now when day came, the magistrates sent the lictors, saying, Release those men.
Ac 16:36And the jailer reported these words to Paul: The magistrates have sent that you may be released. Now therefore come out and go in peace.
Ac 16:37But Paul said to them, They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men who are Romans, and have thrown us into prison; and now secretly they are thrusting us out? No indeed! But let them come themselves and bring us out.
Ac 16:38And the lictors reported these words to the magistrates. And they became frightened when they heard that they were Romans.
Ac 16:39And they came and entreated them. And when they had brought them out, they asked them to depart from the city.
Ac 16:40And they went out from the prison and entered the house of Lydia; and when they saw the brothers, they exhorted them and went forth.
Ac 17:1And they traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia and came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
Ac 17:2And according to his custom Paul went in to them, and on three Sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
Ac 17:3Opening and setting before them that the Christ had to suffer and rise from the dead, and saying, This is the Christ, the Jesus whom I announce to you.
Ac 17:4And some of them were persuaded and were joined to Paul and Silas, as well as a great multitude of the devout Greeks, and of the chief women not a few.
Ac 17:5But the Jews, becoming jealous and taking along some evil men from among the loafers in the marketplace, gathered a crowd and set the city in an uproar; and coming upon the house of Jason, they sought to bring them to the populace.
Ac 17:6But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brothers before the city officials, shouting, These men who have upset the world have come here also,
Ac 17:7Whom Jason has welcomed; and these all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.
Ac 17:8And they stirred up the crowd and the city officials, who listened to these things.
Ac 17:9And when they had taken bail from Jason and the rest, they released them.
Ac 17:10And the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away during the night to Berea, who, when they arrived, went off into the synagogue of the Jews.
Ac 17:11Now these people were more noble than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see whether these things were so.
Ac 17:12Therefore many of them believed, and there were not a few Greek women of high standing and men.
Ac 17:13But when the Jews from Thessalonica found out that the word of God had been announced by Paul in Berea also, they came there as well, agitating and stirring up the crowds.
Ac 17:14And immediately the brothers then sent Paul off, to go as far as the sea; and Silas and Timothy remained there.
Ac 17:15And those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as quickly as possible, they went off.
Ac 17:16And while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he beheld that the city was full of idols.
Ac 17:17He reasoned therefore in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.
Ac 17:18And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also confronted him. And some said, What would this babbler wish to say? And others, He seems to be an announcer of foreign deities — because he was announcing Jesus and the resurrection as the gospel.
Ac 17:19And they took hold of him and led him to the Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new teaching is which is being spoken by you?
Ac 17:20For you are bringing strange things to our ears. We intend to know therefore what these things mean.
Ac 17:21(Now all the Athenians and the foreigners sojourning there spent their time on nothing other than telling or hearing something new.)
Ac 17:22And Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, Men of Athens, I observe that in every way you very much revere your deities.
Ac 17:23For while I was passing through and carefully observing the objects of your worship, I even found an altar on which was inscribed, TO AN UNKNOWN GOD. What therefore you worship without knowing, this I announce to you.
Ac 17:24The God who made the world and all things in it, this One, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands;
Ac 17:25Neither is He served by human hands as though He needed anything in addition, since He Himself gives to all life and breath and all things.
Ac 17:26And He made from one every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, determining beforehand their appointed seasons and the boundaries of their dwelling,
Ac 17:27That they might seek God, if perhaps they might grope for Him and find Him, even though He is not far from each one of us;
Ac 17:28For in Him we live and move and are, as even some poets among you have said, For we are also His race.
Ac 17:29Being then the race of God, we ought not to suppose that what is divine is like gold or silver or stone, like an engraving of art and thought of man.
Ac 17:30Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God now charges all men everywhere to repent,
Ac 17:31Because He has set a day in which He is to judge the world in righteousness by the man whom He has designated, having furnished proof to all by raising Him from the dead.
Ac 17:32And when they heard of a resurrection of the dead, some scoffed; and others said, We will hear you yet again concerning this.
Ac 17:33Thus Paul went out from their midst.
Ac 17:34But some men joined him and believed, among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.
Ac 18:1After these things he departed from Athens and came to Corinth.
Ac 18:2And having found a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, recently come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife (because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to depart from Rome), he went to them.
Ac 18:3And because he was of the same trade, he remained with them and worked; for they were tentmakers by trade.
Ac 18:4And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, persuading Jews and Greeks.
Ac 18:5And when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was constrained by the word, solemnly testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
Ac 18:6But when they resisted and blasphemed, he shook out his garments and said to them, Your blood be upon your head; I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles.
Ac 18:7And he left there and went into the house of one named Titius Justus, one who worshipped God, whose house was next to the synagogue.
Ac 18:8And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with his whole household; and many of the Corinthians, when they heard, believed and were baptized.
Ac 18:9And the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent;
Ac 18:10Because I Myself am with you, and no one will assail you to harm you, because I have many people in this city.
Ac 18:11And he remained there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Ac 18:12But while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up against Paul with one accord and brought him to the judgment seat,
Ac 18:13Saying, This man incites men to worship God contrary to the law.
Ac 18:14But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If it were a matter of wrongdoing or some wicked crime, O Jews, I would for that reason tolerate you;
Ac 18:15But if there are questions concerning words and names and your own law, look after it yourselves. A judge of these things I do not intend to be.
Ac 18:16And he drove them away from the judgment seat.
Ac 18:17And they all laid hold of Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the judgment seat. And Gallio was not concerned about any of these things.
Ac 18:18And Paul, having remained there yet a considerable number of days, took leave of the brothers and sailed away to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila, having shorn his head in Cenchrea, for he had a vow.
Ac 18:19And they arrived at Ephesus, and he left them there; but he entered into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.
Ac 18:20And when they asked him to remain for a longer time, he did not consent;
Ac 18:21But taking leave of them and saying, I will come back to you again, God willing, he put out to sea from Ephesus.
Ac 18:22And coming down to Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and greeted the church and went down to Antioch.
Ac 18:23And when he had spent some time there, he went off, passing through the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, confirming all the disciples.
Ac 18:24And a certain Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, arrived at Ephesus, and he was powerful in the Scriptures.
Ac 18:25This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John.
Ac 18:26And this man began to speak boldly in the synagogue. And when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him to themselves and expounded the way of God to him more accurately.
Ac 18:27And when he intended to pass through into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him; and when he arrived there, he helped much through grace those who had believed;
Ac 18:28For he vigorously confuted the Jews publicly, showing by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.
Ac 19:1Now while Apollos was in Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper districts, came down to Ephesus and found some disciples,
Ac 19:2And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said to him, On the contrary, we did not even hear whether there is a Holy Spirit.
Ac 19:3And he said, Into what then were you baptized? And they said, Into John’s baptism.
Ac 19:4And Paul said, John baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people that they should believe into the One coming after him, that is, into Jesus.
Ac 19:5And when they heard this, they were baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
Ac 19:6And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
Ac 19:7And there were in all about twelve men.
Ac 19:8And he entered into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading them in the things concerning the kingdom of God.
Ac 19:9But when some were hardened and would not be persuaded, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he withdrew from them and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus.
Ac 19:10And this took place for two years, so that all those dwelling in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
Ac 19:11And God did works of power of no ordinary kind through the hands of Paul,
Ac 19:12So that even handkerchiefs or aprons were carried away from his body to the sick, and their diseases left them, and the evil spirits went out.
Ac 19:13But some of the Jewish exorcists who also went about took it upon themselves to name over those who had evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.
Ac 19:14And there were seven sons of a certain Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, doing this.
Ac 19:15And the evil spirit answered and said to them, Jesus I know, and with Paul I am acquainted; but who are you?
Ac 19:16And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped upon them, subdued both of them, and overpowered them, so that they escaped out of that house naked and wounded.
Ac 19:17And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, dwelling in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
Ac 19:18And many of those who had believed came, confessing and making known their practices.
Ac 19:19And a considerable number of those who practiced magic brought their books together and burned them before all; and they counted up the price of them and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Ac 19:20Thus, the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed.
Ac 19:21And when these things were fulfilled, Paul purposed in his spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.
Ac 19:22And having sent into Macedonia two of those who served him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for a time.
Ac 19:23And about that time no small disturbance took place concerning the Way.
Ac 19:24For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith who made silver shrines of Artemis, afforded no little business to the craftsmen.
Ac 19:25These he assembled together with the workmen of similar trades as well and said, Men, you know that from this business we have our prosperity.
Ac 19:26And you observe and hear that not only at Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this Paul has persuaded and perverted a considerable number, saying that the gods being made by hands are no gods at all.
Ac 19:27And not only is there danger that our trade will come into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be counted as nothing and that the magnificence of her whom the whole of Asia and the inhabited earth worship will also be overthrown.
Ac 19:28And when they heard this, they became full of rage and began to cry out, saying, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
Ac 19:29And the city was filled with confusion; and they rushed with one accord into the theater, seizing Gaius and Aristarchus of Macedonia, Paul’s traveling companions.
Ac 19:30And when Paul intended to enter into the populace, the disciples would not allow him.
Ac 19:31And some of the Asiarchs also, who were his friends, sent to him and entreated him not to venture into the theater.
Ac 19:32So then some were crying out one thing, and some another; for the assembly was in confusion, and the majority did not know for what cause they had come together.
Ac 19:33And they drew Alexander out of the crowd, the Jews having pushed him forward; and Alexander, motioning with his hand, wanted to make a defense to the populace.
Ac 19:34But when they realized that he was a Jew, one voice arose from all for about two hours, crying out, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
Ac 19:35And the town clerk, having quieted the crowd, said, Men of Ephesus, which of you men is there then who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the temple keeper of the great Artemis and of the image fallen from Zeus?
Ac 19:36Since these things therefore cannot be disputed, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash;
Ac 19:37For you have brought forth these men who are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of our goddess.
Ac 19:38If then Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a matter against anyone, courts are being conducted and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges against one another.
Ac 19:39But if you seek after anything further, it shall be settled in the legal assembly.
Ac 19:40For indeed we are in danger of being charged with insurrection for today’s affair, since there is no reason for it; and with reference to it we will not be able to give an account concerning this disorderly gathering.
Ac 19:41And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
Ac 20:1And after the uproar had ceased, Paul, having sent for the disciples and having exhorted them, took leave of them and went off to go into Macedonia.
Ac 20:2And when he had passed through those parts and had exhorted them with many words, he came into Greece,
Ac 20:3And spent three months there. And when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he resolved to return through Macedonia.
Ac 20:4And Sopater of Berea, the son of Pyrrhus, accompanied him, as well as Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians and Gaius of Derbe and Timothy and the Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus.
Ac 20:5These had gone on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas.
Ac 20:6And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread and in five days came to them in Troas, where we spent seven days.
Ac 20:7And on the first day of the week, when we gathered together to break bread, Paul conversed with them since he was to go forth on the next day; and he extended his message until midnight.
Ac 20:8And there were a considerable number of lamps in the upper room where we were gathered together.
Ac 20:9And a certain young man named Eutychus was sitting in the window and began to sink into deep sleep while Paul conversed longer; and when he had been overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
Ac 20:10But Paul went down and fell upon him, and embracing him, he said, Do not make a commotion, for his soul is in him.
Ac 20:11And when he had gone up and broken the bread and eaten and had spoken for a considerable time, until daybreak, he therefore went forth.
Ac 20:12And they brought the boy alive and were comforted, and that not moderately.
Ac 20:13But we, going ahead onto the ship, set sail for Assos, from there intending to pick up Paul, for so he had arranged it, himself intending to go by foot.
Ac 20:14And when he met us in Assos, we picked him up and came to Mitylene.
Ac 20:15And sailing away from there, on the following day we arrived opposite Chios; and on the next day we put in at Samos. And on the day following we came to Miletus,
Ac 20:16For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so that he might not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying so that if possible he might be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
Ac 20:17And from Miletus he sent word to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church.
Ac 20:18And when they came to him, he said to them, You yourselves know, from the first day that I set foot in Asia, how I was with you all the time,
Ac 20:19Serving the Lord as a slave with all humility and tears and trials which came upon me by the plots of the Jews;
Ac 20:20How I did not withhold any of those things that are profitable by not declaring them to you and by not teaching you publicly and from house to house,
Ac 20:21Solemnly testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance unto God and faith in our Lord Jesus.
Ac 20:22And now, behold, I am going bound in the spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing what will meet me there,
Ac 20:23Except that the Holy Spirit solemnly testifies to me in city after city, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
Ac 20:24But I consider my life of no account as if precious to myself, in order that I may finish my course and the ministry which I have received from the Lord Jesus to solemnly testify of the gospel of the grace of God.
Ac 20:25And now, behold, I know that you all, among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom, will see my face no more.
Ac 20:26Therefore I testify to you on this day that I am clean from the blood of all men,
Ac 20:27For I did not shrink from declaring to you all the counsel of God.
Ac 20:28Take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among whom the Holy Spirit has placed you as overseers to shepherd the church of God, which He obtained through His own blood.
Ac 20:29I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock.
Ac 20:30And from among you yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverted things to draw away the disciples after them.
Ac 20:31Therefore watch, remembering that for three years, night and day, I did not cease admonishing each one with tears.
Ac 20:32And now I commit you to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who have been sanctified.
Ac 20:33I have coveted no one’s silver or gold or clothing.
Ac 20:34You yourselves know that these hands have ministered to my needs and to those who are with me.
Ac 20:35In all things I have shown you by example that toiling in this way we ought to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
Ac 20:36And when he had said these things, he knelt down with them all and prayed.
Ac 20:37And there was considerable weeping by all; and falling on Paul’s neck, they kissed him affectionately,
Ac 20:38Especially pained over the word which he had spoken, that they would no longer behold his face. And they escorted him to the ship.
Ac 21:1And when we parted from them and set sail, we took a straight course and came to Cos, and on the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
Ac 21:2And having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went on board and set sail.
Ac 21:3And when we sighted Cyprus and left it on the left, we sailed to Syria and came down to Tyre; for there the ship was to unload its cargo.
Ac 21:4And when we had sought out the disciples, we remained there seven days. These told Paul through the Spirit not to set foot in Jerusalem.
Ac 21:5And when we completed the days, we went forth and went on our way, with all of them, including the women and children, escorting us until we were outside the city. And when we had knelt down on the beach and prayed,
Ac 21:6We took leave of one another and went on board the ship; and they returned home.
Ac 21:7And when we finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais; and we greeted the brothers and remained with them one day.
Ac 21:8And on the next day we went forth and came to Caesarea; and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we remained with him.
Ac 21:9Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.
Ac 21:10And while we remained there many days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
Ac 21:11And he came to us and took Paul’s belt; and having bound his own feet and hands, he said, Thus says the Holy Spirit, In this way will the Jews in Jerusalem bind the man whose belt this is and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
Ac 21:12And when we heard these things, both we and those in that place entreated him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Ac 21:13Then Paul answered, What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
Ac 21:14And since he would not be persuaded, we became silent, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
Ac 21:15And after these days we gathered our baggage and went up to Jerusalem.
Ac 21:16And some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us, bringing us to a certain Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we were to lodge.
Ac 21:17And when we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us gladly.
Ac 21:18And on the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
Ac 21:19And having greeted them, he related one by one the things which God did among the Gentiles through his ministry.
Ac 21:20And when they heard it, they glorified God and said to him, You observe, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed; and all are zealous for the law.
Ac 21:21And they have been informed concerning you that you are teaching all the Jews throughout the nations apostasy from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children, nor to walk according to the customs.
Ac 21:22What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come.
Ac 21:23Therefore do this that we tell you: We have four men who have a vow on themselves;
Ac 21:24Take these and be purified with them, and pay their expenses that they may shave their heads. And all will know that there is nothing to the things that they have been informed of concerning you, but that you yourself also walk orderly, keeping the law.
Ac 21:25But concerning the Gentiles who have believed, we have already written, having decided that they should keep themselves from idol sacrifices and blood and anything strangled and fornication.
Ac 21:26Then Paul took the men and on the following day, being purified with them, entered into the temple, giving notice of the completion of the days of the purification, until the offering was offered for each one of them.
Ac 21:27And when the seven days were about to be concluded, the Jews from Asia saw him in the temple and threw all the crowd into confusion; and they laid their hands on him,
Ac 21:28Crying out, Men of Israel, help! This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people and the law and this place; and further, he has even brought Greeks into the temple and has profaned this holy place.
Ac 21:29For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed Paul had brought into the temple.
Ac 21:30And the whole city was stirred, and the people ran together; and they laid hold of Paul and dragged him outside the temple; and immediately the doors were shut.
Ac 21:31And as they were seeking to kill him, a report came up to the commander of the cohort that all Jerusalem was in confusion.
Ac 21:32And he at once took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. And when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Ac 21:33Then the commander drew near and laid hold of him and ordered him to be bound with two chains. And he inquired who he might be and what he had done.
Ac 21:34And some among the crowd were shouting one thing, and some another. And since he could not find out the facts because of the uproar, he ordered him to be brought into the barracks.
Ac 21:35And when Paul came to the stairs, it so happened that he was being carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd;
Ac 21:36For the multitude of the people were following and crying out, Away with him!
Ac 21:37And when he was about to be brought into the barracks, Paul said to the commander, Am I allowed to say anything to you? And he said, You know Greek?
Ac 21:38You are not then the Egyptian who some days ago revolted and led out the four thousand men of the Assassins into the wilderness?
Ac 21:39But Paul said, I am a Jewish man of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city, and I beg you, permit me to speak to the people.
Ac 21:40And when he had given him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great silence, he addressed them in the Hebrew dialect, saying,
Ac 22:1Men, brothers and fathers, hear my defense which I now make to you.
Ac 22:2And when they heard that he addressed them in the Hebrew dialect, they became more quiet. And he said,
Ac 22:3I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia but brought up in this city and trained at the feet of Gamaliel, according to the strictness of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God, even as you all are today.
Ac 22:4And I persecuted this Way unto death, binding and delivering to prisons both men and women,
Ac 22:5As also the high priest and all the assembly of the elders testify for me; from whom I also received letters to the brothers and went to Damascus to bring those also who were there bound to Jerusalem that they might be punished.
Ac 22:6And as I journeyed and drew near to Damascus about midday, suddenly a great light flashed out of heaven around me;
Ac 22:7And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?
Ac 22:8And I answered, Who are You, Lord? And He said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you persecute.
Ac 22:9And those who were with me beheld the light, but did not hear the voice of the One who was speaking to me.
Ac 22:10And I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said to me, Rise up and go into Damascus, and there it will be told to you concerning all the things which have been appointed to you to do.
Ac 22:11And as I could not see because of the glory of that light, I was led by the hand by those who were with me and came into Damascus.
Ac 22:12And a certain Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well attested to by all the Jews dwelling there,
Ac 22:13Came to me, and standing by, said to me, Saul, brother, receive your sight! And in that very hour I looked up at him.
Ac 22:14And he said, The God of our fathers has previously appointed you to know His will and to see the righteous One and to hear the voice from His mouth;
Ac 22:15For you will be a witness to Him unto all men of the things which you have seen and heard.
Ac 22:16And now, why do you delay? Rise up and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on His name.
Ac 22:17And when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I went into a trance;
Ac 22:18And I saw Him saying to me, Hurry, and go quickly out of Jerusalem, because they will not accept your testimony concerning Me.
Ac 22:19And I said, Lord, they know that I was imprisoning and beating from synagogue to synagogue those who believe on You;
Ac 22:20And when the blood of Your witness Stephen was being shed, I myself also was standing by and approving and keeping the garments of those who did away with him.
Ac 22:21And He said to me, Go, for I will send you forth far away to the Gentiles.
Ac 22:22And they listened to him up to this word, and then they lifted up their voice, saying, Away from the earth with such a man, for it is not fitting for him to live!
Ac 22:23And as they were crying out and casting off their garments and throwing dust in the air,
Ac 22:24The commander ordered him to be brought into the barracks, saying that he should be examined by scourging in order that he might ascertain for what cause they were shouting against him so.
Ac 22:25But as they stretched him out with the thongs, Paul said to the centurion standing by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman and uncondemned?
Ac 22:26And when the centurion heard this, he went to the commander and reported, saying, What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman.
Ac 22:27And the commander came and said to him, Tell me, are you a Roman? And he said, Yes.
Ac 22:28And the commander answered, With a large sum of money I acquired this citizenship. And Paul said, But I was even born a Roman.
Ac 22:29Immediately therefore those who were about to examine him withdrew from him; and the commander also was afraid, realizing that he was a Roman and that he had bound him.
Ac 22:30And on the next day he, intending to find out for certain why he was accused by the Jews, released him and ordered the chief priests and all the Sanhedrin to come together; and having brought Paul down, he had him stand before them.
Ac 23:1And Paul, looking intently at the Sanhedrin, said, Men, brothers, I have conducted myself in all good conscience before God until this day.
Ac 23:2And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.
Ac 23:3Then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall. And do you sit to judge me according to the law, and contrary to the law you order me to be struck?
Ac 23:4And those standing by said, Do you revile the high priest of God?
Ac 23:5And Paul said, I did not know, brothers, that he is the high priest; for it is written, “You shall not speak evilly of the ruler of your people.”
Ac 23:6And Paul, knowing that one part was Sadducees and the other Pharisees, cried out in the Sanhedrin, Men, brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees; concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead I am being judged!
Ac 23:7And when he spoke this, a dissension took place between the Pharisees and Sadducees; and the multitude was divided.
Ac 23:8For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both.
Ac 23:9And there was a great outcry; and some of the scribes of the Pharisees’ party rose up and contended, saying, We find nothing evil in this man. And what if a spirit has spoken to him, or an angel?
Ac 23:10And when much dissension had taken place, the commander, fearing that Paul might be torn to pieces by them, ordered the detachment of soldiers to go down and seize him from their midst and bring him into the barracks.
Ac 23:11But in the night following, the Lord stood by him and said, Take courage, for as you have solemnly testified to the things concerning Me in Jerusalem, so also you must testify in Rome.
Ac 23:12And when it became day, the Jews formed a plot and put themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul.
Ac 23:13And there were more than forty who swore to this conspiracy.
Ac 23:14They came to the chief priests and the elders and said, We have bound ourselves with a curse to taste nothing until we kill Paul.
Ac 23:15Now therefore you, with the Sanhedrin, notify the commander to bring him down to you, as though you were going to determine more accurately the things concerning him; and we, before he draws near, are ready to do away with him.
Ac 23:16But the son of Paul’s sister heard of the ambush, and he came and entered into the barracks and reported it to Paul.
Ac 23:17And Paul called one of the centurions to him and said, Bring this young man to the commander, for he has something to report to him.
Ac 23:18So he took him and brought him to the commander and said, The prisoner Paul called me to him and asked me to bring this young man to you, because he has something to tell you.
Ac 23:19And the commander took him by the hand and, withdrawing privately, inquired, What is it that you have to report to me?
Ac 23:20And he said, The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down tomorrow to the Sanhedrin, as though they were going to inquire somewhat more accurately concerning him.
Ac 23:21So you should not be persuaded by them, for more than forty of their men are lying in ambush for him; they have put themselves under a curse neither to eat nor to drink until they have done away with him. And now they are ready, awaiting the promise from you.
Ac 23:22So the commander dismissed the young man, charging him, Do not tell anyone that you have informed me of these things.
Ac 23:23And he called to him a certain two of the centurions and said, Prepare two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, as well as seventy horsemen and two hundred spearmen, by the third hour of the night;
Ac 23:24And they were also to provide mounts to put Paul on and bring him safely to Felix the governor.
Ac 23:25And he wrote a letter having this form:
Ac 23:26Claudius Lysias, to his Excellency, Governor Felix, rejoice.
Ac 23:27This man, having been seized by the Jews and about to be done away with by them, I came upon with my detachment of soldiers and rescued, when I learned that he was a Roman.
Ac 23:28And intending to ascertain the cause for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their Sanhedrin,
Ac 23:29And found him to be accused concerning questions of their law, but having nothing worthy of death or of bonds laid to his charge.
Ac 23:30And when it was disclosed to me that there was a plot against the man, I sent him at once to you, charging the accusers also to speak the things against him before you.
Ac 23:31So the soldiers, according to what they had been directed, took up Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
Ac 23:32And on the next day, leaving the horsemen to depart with him, they returned to the barracks.
Ac 23:33And when they entered into Caesarea and handed over the letter to the governor, they presented Paul also to him.
Ac 23:34And when he had read it, he asked from what province he was; and learning that he was from Cilicia,
Ac 23:35He said, I will hear your case fully when your accusers also arrive. And he ordered him to be guarded in Herod’s praetorium.
Ac 24:1And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and a certain orator, Tertullus; and they gave their information against Paul to the governor.
Ac 24:2And when Paul was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Since we have obtained much peace through you, and since reforms are being carried out for this nation through your forethought
Ac 24:3Both in every way and everywhere, we welcome it, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
Ac 24:4But that I may not detain you further, I entreat you to hear us briefly in your forbearance.
Ac 24:5For we have found this man a pest and an agitator of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the inhabited earth and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes,
Ac 24:6Who has also tried to profane the temple. Him also we laid hold of and wanted to judge according to our law,
Ac 24:7But Lysias the commander came by and with much force took him away from our hands
Ac 24:8And ordered his accusers to come to you. When you have examined this man yourself concerning all these things, you will be able to ascertain from him the things which we accuse him of.
Ac 24:9And the Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so.
Ac 24:10And when the governor nodded for him to speak, Paul answered: Knowing that for many years you have been a judge to this nation, I gladly make my defense for the things concerning myself,
Ac 24:11Since you can realize that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem.
Ac 24:12And neither in the temple did they find me disputing with anyone nor stirring up a crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor throughout the city.
Ac 24:13Neither are they able to prove to you the things which they now accuse me of.
Ac 24:14But I confess this to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, so I serve the God of our fathers, believing all the things that are written in the Law and in the Prophets;
Ac 24:15Having hope toward God, which these themselves also look for, that there is to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous.
Ac 24:16Because of this I also exercise myself to always have a conscience without offense toward God and men.
Ac 24:17Now after many years I came bringing alms to my nation and offerings;
Ac 24:18In which they found me purified in the temple, with no crowd or uproar. But certain Jews from Asia,
Ac 24:19Who should have been present before you and made accusation if they had anything against me — 
Ac 24:20Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the Sanhedrin,
Ac 24:21Other than concerning this one sound which I cried out while standing among them, Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged today before you.
Ac 24:22But Felix, knowing more accurately the things concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, When Lysias the commander comes down, I will determine your affairs.
Ac 24:23And he directed the centurion to keep him in custody, and that he should have some liberty and that no one should prevent his own people from attending to him.
Ac 24:24But after some days, Felix arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was a Jewess, and he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus.
Ac 24:25And as he was reasoning concerning righteousness and self-control and the judgment to come, Felix became afraid and answered, Go for the present, and when I have an opportunity, I will call for you;
Ac 24:26Hoping at the same time also that money would be given to him by Paul. Therefore he also sent for him more frequently and conversed with him.
Ac 24:27And when two years were completed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and wanting to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul bound.
Ac 25:1Festus therefore, having come into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
Ac 25:2And the chief priests and leading men of the Jews gave their information to him against Paul; and they entreated him,
Ac 25:3Asking for a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem, they themselves setting an ambush to do away with him on the way.
Ac 25:4Festus therefore answered that Paul was being kept in custody in Caesarea, and that he himself was about to proceed there shortly.
Ac 25:5Therefore, he said, let influential men from among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong in the man, let them accuse him.
Ac 25:6And having stayed among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea; and on the next day he sat on the judgment seat and ordered Paul to be brought.
Ac 25:7And when he arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many serious charges against him, which they were not able to prove,
Ac 25:8While Paul said in his defense, Neither against the law of the Jews nor against the temple nor against Caesar have I sinned in anything.
Ac 25:9But Festus, wanting to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and be judged there before me concerning these things?
Ac 25:10And Paul said, I am standing before Caesar’s judgment seat, where I ought to be judged. I have done nothing wrong to the Jews, as you also very well know.
Ac 25:11If therefore I am doing wrong and have committed anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if there is nothing to the things which these accuse me of, no one can hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.
Ac 25:12Then when Festus had conferred with the council, he answered, To Caesar you have appealed; to Caesar you shall go.
Ac 25:13Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted Festus.
Ac 25:14And while they were staying some additional days there, Festus laid before the king the matters regarding Paul, saying, There is a certain man who has been left a prisoner by Felix,
Ac 25:15Concerning whom, when I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews gave information and asked for a sentence against him.
Ac 25:16To them I answered that it is not the custom with Romans to hand over any man before he who is accused meets the accusers face to face and has an opportunity for a defense concerning the charge.
Ac 25:17So when they had come together here, I made no delay; on the next day, sitting on the judgment seat, I ordered the man to be brought.
Ac 25:18Concerning him the accusers stood and brought no charge of the evil things I was suspecting.
Ac 25:19But they had certain questions against him concerning their own religion and concerning a certain Jesus who had died, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
Ac 25:20And being at a loss as to how there should be an inquiry concerning these things, I asked him if he was willing to go to Jerusalem and be judged there concerning these things.
Ac 25:21But when Paul appealed to be kept in custody for the decision of the Emperor, I ordered him to be kept in custody until I should send him up to Caesar.
Ac 25:22And Agrippa said to Festus, I myself also would like to hear the man. Tomorrow, said Festus, you shall hear him.
Ac 25:23Therefore on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp and entered into the hall of audience together with the commanders and prominent men of the city, and when Festus had given the order, Paul was brought.
Ac 25:24And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all you men who are present with us, you behold this man, concerning whom all the multitude of Jews have petitioned me, both in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer.
Ac 25:25But I found that he had done nothing worthy of death; and since he himself appealed to the Emperor, I decided to send him.
Ac 25:26Concerning him I have nothing definite to write to my lord; therefore I have brought him before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that when the examination has taken place, I may have something to write.
Ac 25:27For it seems unreasonable to me, in sending a prisoner, not to also signify the charges against him.
Ac 26:1And Agrippa said to Paul, You are permitted to speak for yourself. Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:
Ac 26:2Concerning all the things which I am accused of by the Jews, King Agrippa, I consider myself blessed that I am to make my defense before you today,
Ac 26:3Especially since you are familiar with all the customs and questions among the Jews; therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
Ac 26:4The manner of my life from youth, which from the beginning was among my own nation and in Jerusalem, all the Jews know,
Ac 26:5Since they have previously known about me from the first, if they were willing to testify, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee.
Ac 26:6And now I stand here being judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers,
Ac 26:7To which our twelve tribes, earnestly serving night and day, hope to attain. Concerning this hope I am accused by the Jews, O king.
Ac 26:8Why is it judged incredible among you if God raises the dead?
Ac 26:9Well then, I thought to myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus the Nazarene,
Ac 26:10Which also I did in Jerusalem; and I both shut up many of the saints in prison when I had received authority from the chief priests and cast a vote against them when they were being done away with.
Ac 26:11And in all the synagogues I punished them often and tried to compel them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly enraged at them, I persecuted them even as far as foreign cities.
Ac 26:12Engaged in these things, I journeyed to Damascus with authority and a commission from the chief priests.
Ac 26:13At midday, on the way, I saw, O king, a light from heaven beyond the brightness of the sun, shining around me and those who journeyed with me.
Ac 26:14And when we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew dialect, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.
Ac 26:15And I said, Who are You, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you persecute.
Ac 26:16But rise up and stand on your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a minister and a witness both of the things in which you have seen Me and of the things in which I will appear to you;
Ac 26:17Delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
Ac 26:18To open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light and from the authority of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who have been sanctified by faith in Me.
Ac 26:19Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
Ac 26:20But declared both to those in Damascus first and in Jerusalem and throughout all the country of Judea and to the Gentiles that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
Ac 26:21Because of these things certain Jews seized me while I was in the temple and tried to slay me.
Ac 26:22Having therefore obtained the help which is from God, I have stood unto this day, testifying both to small and great, saying nothing apart from the things which both the prophets and Moses have said would take place,
Ac 26:23That the Christ would suffer and that He, being the first to rise from the dead, would announce light both to the people and to the Gentiles.
Ac 26:24And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, You are insane, Paul. Much learning is driving you insane.
Ac 26:25But Paul said, I am not insane, most excellent Festus, but I am uttering words of truth and soberness.
Ac 26:26For the king knows about these things, to whom also I speak freely, for I am persuaded that none of these things have escaped his notice; for this has not been done in a corner.
Ac 26:27King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe.
Ac 26:28And Agrippa replied to Paul, By so little are you trying to persuade me to become a Christian?
Ac 26:29And Paul said, I would to God that both by little and by much, not only you, but also all those who hear me today might become even such as I am, except for these bonds.
Ac 26:30And the king rose up, and the governor and Bernice and those sitting with them;
Ac 26:31And when they had withdrawn, they spoke to one another, saying, This man is doing nothing worthy of death or of bonds.
Ac 26:32And Agrippa said to Festus, This man could have been released, had he not appealed to Caesar.
Ac 27:1And when it was decided that we should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion named Julius of the Augustan cohort.
Ac 27:2And going on board an Adramyttian ship which was about to sail to places along the coast of Asia, we put out to sea, Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
Ac 27:3And on the next day we landed at Sidon; and Julius, treating Paul kindly, allowed him to go to his friends to receive care.
Ac 27:4And from there we put out to sea and sailed under the shelter of Cyprus because the winds were contrary.
Ac 27:5And having sailed across the open sea which lies off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came down to Myra of Lycia.
Ac 27:6And there the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing for Italy, and he put us onto it.
Ac 27:7And when we had sailed slowly for a considerable number of days and came with difficulty off Cnidus, the wind not permitting us to go on, we sailed under the shelter of Crete, off Salmone.
Ac 27:8And coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lasea.
Ac 27:9And when considerable time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, and also because the Fast had already gone by, Paul advised them,
Ac 27:10Saying to them, Men, I perceive that the voyage is to be with damage and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.
Ac 27:11But the centurion was persuaded by the navigator and the ship’s owner rather than by the things that were being said by Paul.
Ac 27:12And as the harbor was not suitable for wintering, the majority gave counsel to put out to sea from there, if somehow they might be able to reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete facing northeast and southeast, and spend the winter there.
Ac 27:13And when a south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete close inshore.
Ac 27:14But not long afterward there beat down from the island a hurricane wind called Euraquilo.
Ac 27:15And when the ship was caught by it and was not able to face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along.
Ac 27:16And running under the shelter of a certain little island called Clauda, we were hardly able to get control of the small boat.
Ac 27:17And when they had hoisted it up, they used supports to undergird the ship. And because they feared that they might run aground on Syrtis, they lowered the gear and so were driven along.
Ac 27:18The next day, as we were being violently storm-tossed, they began to jettison the cargo;
Ac 27:19And on the third day they threw the ship’s gear overboard, even with their own hands.
Ac 27:20And when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and while no small storm was assailing us, from then on all hope that we might be saved was being abandoned.
Ac 27:21And when they had been a long time without food, Paul then stood in their midst and said, O men, you should have listened to me and not set sail from Crete and gained this damage and loss.
Ac 27:22And now I advise you to cheer up, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
Ac 27:23For this very night an angel of the God whose I am and whom I serve stood by me,
Ac 27:24Saying, Do not fear, Paul; you must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted you all those who are sailing with you.
Ac 27:25Therefore, cheer up, men, for I believe God that it shall be so, even in the way in which it has been spoken to me.
Ac 27:26But we must run aground on a certain island.
Ac 27:27But when the fourteenth night came, as we were being driven about in the Adriatic Sea, about the middle of the night the sailors suspected that some land was approaching them.
Ac 27:28And they took soundings and found it to be twenty fathoms; and when they had gone a little farther, they sounded again and found it to be fifteen fathoms.
Ac 27:29And fearing that we might run aground somewhere on rocky places, they threw four anchors from the stern and wished for day to come.
Ac 27:30And when the sailors sought to flee from the ship, having lowered the small boat into the sea under pretense of intending to lay out anchors from the bow,
Ac 27:31Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men remain in the ship, you cannot be saved.
Ac 27:32Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the small boat and let it fall away.
Ac 27:33And until day was about to come, Paul encouraged them all to take some food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued watching without food, taking nothing.
Ac 27:34Therefore I encourage you to take some food, for this is for your salvation; for not a hair from the head of any one of you shall perish.
Ac 27:35And when he had said these things and had taken bread, he gave thanks to God before all; and he broke it and began to eat.
Ac 27:36And all became cheerful, and they also took food.
Ac 27:37Now we were in all two hundred and seventy-six souls in the ship.
Ac 27:38And when they were satisfied with food, they began to lighten the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
Ac 27:39And when day came, they could not recognize the land, but they noticed a certain bay, which had a beach, into which they took counsel to drive the ship, if they were able.
Ac 27:40And casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the bands of the rudders; and hoisting the foresail to the blowing of the wind, they held course for the beach.
Ac 27:41But striking a sandbar with the sea on both sides, they ran the vessel aground; and the bow stuck fast and remained immovable, but the stern was broken up by the violence of the waves.
Ac 27:42And the counsel of the soldiers was that they should kill the prisoners, lest anyone swim away and escape;
Ac 27:43But the centurion, intending to bring Paul safely through, prevented them from their intention and ordered those who were able to swim to throw themselves overboard first and get to the land,
Ac 27:44And the rest to follow, some on planks, and others on some of the things from the ship. And so it happened that all were brought safely through onto the land.
Ac 28:1And having been brought safely through, we recognized then that the island was called Malta.
Ac 28:2And the natives showed us uncommon kindness, for they kindled a fire and took us all in because of the rain coming on and because of the cold.
Ac 28:3But when Paul had collected a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened onto his hand.
Ac 28:4And when the natives saw the snake hanging from his hand, they said to one another, Undoubtedly this man is a murderer, whom, though he has been brought safely out of the sea, Justice has not allowed to live.
Ac 28:5However he shook off the snake into the fire and suffered no harm;
Ac 28:6And they expected that he would swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But when they had waited for a long time and beheld nothing unusual happening to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
Ac 28:7Now in the vicinity of that place were the lands of the leading man of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us and gave us hospitality three days in a friendly way.
Ac 28:8And the father of Publius was lying down sick with fever and dysentery. Paul went in to him, and having prayed and laid his hands on him, healed him.
Ac 28:9And when this happened, the rest also in the island who had sicknesses came to him and were healed.
Ac 28:10They also honored us with many honors; and as we put out to sea, they put on board the things for our needs.
Ac 28:11And after it had been three months, we put out to sea in an Alexandrian ship which had wintered in the island, with the twin sons of Zeus for its figurehead.
Ac 28:12And having landed at Syracuse, we remained three days.
Ac 28:13From there we sailed around and arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind came on, and the second day we came to Puteoli,
Ac 28:14Where, having found brothers, we were urged to remain with them seven days. And thus we came to Rome.
Ac 28:15And from there the brothers, having heard about the things concerning us, came as far as the Market of Appius and Three Inns to meet us; and when Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage.
Ac 28:16And when we entered into Rome, Paul was permitted to remain by himself with the soldier who was guarding him.
Ac 28:17And after three days he called together those who were the leading men of the Jews; and when they came together, he said to them, Men, brothers, though I have done nothing against the people or the customs of our fathers, I have been delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,
Ac 28:18Who, having examined me, intended to release me, because there was not one cause of death in me.
Ac 28:19But when the Jews spoke against this, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not that I have anything to accuse my nation of.
Ac 28:20For this cause therefore, I have entreated you to see me and speak with me; for on account of the hope of Israel I have this chain around me.
Ac 28:21And they said to him, We have neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers come and reported or spoken anything evil concerning you.
Ac 28:22But we think it is fitting to hear from you what you think, for concerning this sect it is indeed known to us that it is spoken against everywhere.
Ac 28:23And once they had appointed a day for him, many came to him at his lodging, to whom he expounded these matters, solemnly testifying of the kingdom of God and persuading them concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning until evening.
Ac 28:24And some were persuaded by the things which were said, but others did not believe.
Ac 28:25And when they disagreed with one another, they departed, Paul saying one word to them, Well has the Holy Spirit spoken through Isaiah the prophet to your fathers,
Ac 28:26Saying, “Go to this people and say, In hearing you shall hear and by no means understand, and seeing you will see and by no means perceive;
Ac 28:27For the heart of this people has become fat, and with their ears they have heard heavily, and their eyes they have closed, lest they perceive with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart, and they turn around, and I will heal them.”
Ac 28:28Let it be known to you therefore that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will also hear it.
Ac 28:29And when he had spoken these things, the Jews departed, having much dispute among themselves.
Ac 28:30And he remained two whole years in his own rented dwelling and welcomed all those who came to him,
Ac 28:31Proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, unhindered.
Rm 1:1Paul, a slave of Christ Jesus, a called apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,
Rm 1:2Which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the holy Scriptures,
Rm 1:3Concerning His Son, who came out of the seed of David according to the flesh,
Rm 1:4Who was designated the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness out of the resurrection of the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord;
Rm 1:5Through whom we have received grace and apostleship unto the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles on behalf of His name,
Rm 1:6Among whom you also are the called ones of Jesus Christ;
Rm 1:7To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, the called saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Rm 1:8First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all because your faith is proclaimed throughout the whole world.
Rm 1:9For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of His Son, how unceasingly I make mention of you always in my prayers,
Rm 1:10Beseeching if by any means now at last I may be prospered in the will of God to come to you.
Rm 1:11For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift so that you may be established;
Rm 1:12That is, that I with you may be encouraged among you through the faith which is in one another, both yours and mine.
Rm 1:13And I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that often I purposed to come to you (yet have been hindered until the present), that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.
Rm 1:14I am debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to foolish;
Rm 1:15So, for my part, I am ready to announce the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
Rm 1:16For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, both to Jew first and to Greek.
Rm 1:17For the righteousness of God is revealed in it out of faith to faith, as it is written, “But the righteous shall have life and live by faith.”
Rm 1:18For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold down the truth in unrighteousness,
Rm 1:19Because that which is known of God is manifest within them, for God manifested it to them.
Rm 1:20For the invisible things of Him, both His eternal power and divine characteristics, have been clearly seen since the creation of the world, being perceived by the things made, so that they would be without excuse;
Rm 1:21Because though they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God or thank Him, but rather became vain in their reasonings, and their heart, lacking understanding, was darkened.
Rm 1:22Professing to be wise, they became fools
Rm 1:23And changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of an image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and reptiles.
Rm 1:24Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, so that they dishonor their bodies among themselves,
Rm 1:25Who exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshipped and served the creation rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
Rm 1:26Therefore God gave them up to passions of dishonor; for their females exchanged the natural use for that which is contrary to nature;
Rm 1:27And likewise also the males, leaving the natural use of the female, burned in their craving toward one another, males with males committing unseemliness and fully receiving in themselves the retribution of their error which was due.
Rm 1:28And even as they did not approve of holding God in their full knowledge, God gave them up to a disapproved mind, to do the things which are not fitting,
Rm 1:29Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malignity;
Rm 1:30Whisperers, slanderers, hateful to God, insolent, arrogant, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
Rm 1:31Senseless, faithless, affectionless, merciless;
Rm 1:32Who, though fully knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also have fellow delight in those who practice them.
Rm 2:1Therefore you are without excuse, O every man who judges, for in what you judge another you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things.
Rm 2:2But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon those who practice such things.
Rm 2:3And do you consider this, O man, who judge those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God?
Rm 2:4Or do you despise the riches of His kindness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that God’s kindness is leading you to repentance?
Rm 2:5But, according to your hardness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
Rm 2:6Who will render to each according to his works:
Rm 2:7To those who by endurance in good work seek glory and honor and incorruptibility, life eternal;
Rm 2:8But to those who are selfishly contentious and disobedient to the truth and obey unrighteousness, wrath and fury.
Rm 2:9Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who commits evil, both of Jew first and of Greek;
Rm 2:10But glory and honor and peace to everyone who works good, both to Jew first and to Greek.
Rm 2:11For there is no respect of persons with God.
Rm 2:12For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law; and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law
Rm 2:13(For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
Rm 2:14For when Gentiles, who have no law, do by nature the things of the law, these, though they have no law, are a law to themselves,
Rm 2:15Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness with it and their reasonings, one with the other, accusing or even excusing them.)
Rm 2:16In the day when God judges the secrets of men according to my gospel through Jesus Christ.
Rm 2:17But if you bear the name of Jew, and rest upon the law, and boast in God,
Rm 2:18And know the will, and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law,
Rm 2:19And have confidence that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness,
Rm 2:20One who disciplines the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the proper form of the knowledge and truth in the law;
Rm 2:21You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?
Rm 2:22You who say not to commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob their temples?
Rm 2:23You who boast in the law, do you by transgression of the law dishonor God?
Rm 2:24For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,” even as it is written.
Rm 2:25For circumcision profits if you practice the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
Rm 2:26If therefore the uncircumcision keeps the ordinances of the law, will not his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
Rm 2:27And the uncircumcision by nature, if he fulfills the law, will judge you who through the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law.
Rm 2:28For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.
Rm 2:29But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is of the heart, in spirit, not in letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God.
Rm 3:1What then is the advantage of the Jew? Or what is the profit of the circumcision?
Rm 3:2Much in every way. First, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
Rm 3:3For what if some disbelieved? Shall their unbelief annul the faithfulness of God?
Rm 3:4Absolutely not! But let God be true and every man a liar, as it is written, “That You may be declared righteous in Your words and may overcome when You are judged.”
Rm 3:5But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is the God who inflicts wrath unrighteous? I speak according to man.
Rm 3:6Absolutely not! Otherwise how shall God judge the world?
Rm 3:7But if the truthfulness of God has abounded in my lie unto His glory, why still am I also being judged as a sinner?
Rm 3:8And why not say (as we are slanderously charged and as some affirm that we say), Let us do evil that good may come? whose judgment is just.
Rm 3:9What then? Are we better? Not at all! For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin,
Rm 3:10Even as it is written, “There is none righteous, not even one;
Rm 3:11There is none who understands, there is none who seeks out God.
Rm 3:12All have turned aside; together they have become useless; there is none who does good; there is not so much as one.
Rm 3:13Their throat is an opened grave; with their tongues they practiced deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips;
Rm 3:14Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
Rm 3:15Swift are their feet to shed blood,
Rm 3:16Destruction and misery are in their ways,
Rm 3:17And the way of peace they have not known.
Rm 3:18There is no fear of God before their eyes.”
Rm 3:19Now we know that whatever things the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may fall under the judgment of God;
Rm 3:20Because out of the works of the law no flesh shall be justified before Him; for through the law is the clear knowledge of sin.
Rm 3:21But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, witness being borne to it by the Law and the Prophets;
Rm 3:22Even the righteousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ to all those who believe, for there is no distinction;
Rm 3:23For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
Rm 3:24Being justified freely by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus;
Rm 3:25Whom God set forth as a propitiation place through faith in His blood, for the demonstrating of His righteousness, in that in His forbearance God passed over the sins that had previously occurred,
Rm 3:26With a view to the demonstrating of His righteousness in the present time, so that He might be righteous and the One who justifies him who is of the faith of Jesus.
Rm 3:27Where then is boasting? It is excluded. Through what kind of law? That of works? No, but through the law of faith.
Rm 3:28For we account that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.
Rm 3:29Or is He the God of the Jews only? Is He not of the Gentiles also? Yes, of the Gentiles also,
Rm 3:30If indeed God is one, who will justify the circumcision out of faith and the uncircumcision through faith.
Rm 3:31Do we then make the law of no effect through faith? Absolutely not! Rather, we establish the law.
Rm 4:1What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh has found?
Rm 4:2For if Abraham was justified out of works, he has something to boast in, but not before God.
Rm 4:3For what does the Scripture say? “And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness.”
Rm 4:4Now to the one who works, his wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to what is due.
Rm 4:5But to the one who does not work, but believes on Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted as righteousness.
Rm 4:6Even as David also speaks blessing on the man to whom God accounts righteousness apart from works:
Rm 4:7“Blessed are they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered over.
Rm 4:8Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall by no means account sin.”
Rm 4:9Is this blessing then upon the circumcision only, or also upon the uncircumcision? For we say, Faith was accounted to Abraham as righteousness.
Rm 4:10How then was it accounted? While he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
Rm 4:11And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those in uncircumcision who believe, that righteousness might be accounted to them also,
Rm 4:12And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had in uncircumcision.
Rm 4:13For it was not through the law that the promise was made to Abraham or to his seed that he would be the heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith.
Rm 4:14For if those of the law are heirs, faith has been made void and the promise has been annulled;
Rm 4:15For the law works out wrath; but where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
Rm 4:16Therefore the inheritance is out of faith that it might be according to grace, so that the promise may be certain to all the seed, not to that which is of the law only, but also to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
Rm 4:17(As it is written, “I have appointed you a father of many nations”) in the sight of God whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls the things not being as being.
Rm 4:18He beyond hope believed in hope in order that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, “So shall your seed be.”
Rm 4:19And not weakening in his faith, he considered his own body as already dead, being about a hundred years old, as well as the deadening of Sarah’s womb;
Rm 4:20But with regard to the promise of God, he did not doubt in unbelief, but was empowered by faith, giving glory to God
Rm 4:21And being fully persuaded that what He had promised He was able also to do.
Rm 4:22Therefore also it was accounted to him as righteousness.
Rm 4:23Now it was not written for his sake only that it was accounted to him,
Rm 4:24But for ours also to whom it is to be accounted, who believe on Him who has raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
Rm 4:25Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised for our justification.
Rm 5:1Therefore having been justified out of faith, we have peace toward God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
Rm 5:2Through whom also we have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and boast because of the hope of the glory of God.
Rm 5:3And not only so, but we also boast in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces endurance;
Rm 5:4And endurance, approvedness; and approvedness, hope;
Rm 5:5And hope does not put us to shame, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
Rm 5:6For while we were yet weak, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.
Rm 5:7For scarcely for a righteous man will anyone die, though perhaps for the good man someone would even dare to die.
Rm 5:8But God commends His own love to us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
Rm 5:9Much more then, having now been justified in His blood, we will be saved through Him from the wrath.
Rm 5:10For if we, being enemies, were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more we will be saved in His life, having been reconciled,
Rm 5:11And not only so, but also boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
Rm 5:12Therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin, death; and thus death passed on to all men because all have sinned — 
Rm 5:13For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not charged to one’s account when there is no law.
Rm 5:14But death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned after the likeness of Adam’s transgression, who is a type of Him who was to come.
Rm 5:15But it is not that as the offense was, so also the gracious gift is; for if by the offense of the one the many died, much more the grace of God and the free gift in grace of the one man Jesus Christ have abounded to the many.
Rm 5:16And it is not that as through one who sinned, so also the free gift is; for the judgment was out of one offense unto condemnation, but the gracious gift is out of many offenses unto justification.
Rm 5:17For if, by the offense of the one, death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ.
Rm 5:18So then as it was through one offense unto condemnation to all men, so also it was through one righteous act unto justification of life to all men.
Rm 5:19For just as through the disobedience of one man the many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the many will be constituted righteous.
Rm 5:20And the law entered in alongside that the offense might abound; but where sin abounded, grace has superabounded,
Rm 5:21In order that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Rm 6:1What then shall we say? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound?
Rm 6:2Absolutely not! We who have died to sin, how shall we still live in it?
Rm 6:3Or are you ignorant that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death?
Rm 6:4We have been buried therefore with Him through baptism into His death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so also we might walk in newness of life.
Rm 6:5For if we have grown together with Him in the likeness of His death, indeed we will also be in the likeness of His resurrection,
Rm 6:6Knowing this, that our old man has been crucified with Him in order that the body of sin might be annulled, that we should no longer serve sin as slaves;
Rm 6:7For he who has died is justified from sin.
Rm 6:8Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him,
Rm 6:9Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more; death lords it over Him no more.
Rm 6:10For the death which He died, He died to sin once for all; but the life which He lives, He lives to God.
Rm 6:11So also you, reckon yourselves to be dead to sin, but living to God in Christ Jesus.
Rm 6:12Do not let sin therefore reign in your mortal body so that you obey the body’s lusts;
Rm 6:13Neither present your members as weapons of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as alive from the dead, and your members as weapons of righteousness to God.
Rm 6:14For sin will not lord it over you, for you are not under the law but under grace.
Rm 6:15What then? Should we sin, because we are not under the law but under grace? Absolutely not!
Rm 6:16Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves as slaves for obedience, his slaves you are whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness?
Rm 6:17But thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you have obeyed from the heart the form of teaching into which you were delivered.
Rm 6:18And having been freed from sin, you were enslaved to righteousness.
Rm 6:19I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness unto lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness unto sanctification.
Rm 6:20For when you were slaves of sin, you were free with regard to righteousness.
Rm 6:21What fruit then did you have at that time? Things of which you are now ashamed, for the end of those things is death.
Rm 6:22But now, having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end, eternal life.
Rm 6:23For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Rm 7:1Or are you ignorant, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law lords it over the man as long as he lives?
Rm 7:2For the married woman is bound by the law to her husband while he is living; but if the husband dies, she is discharged from the law regarding the husband.
Rm 7:3So then if, while the husband is living, she is joined to another man, she will be called an adulteress; but if the husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
Rm 7:4So then, my brothers, you also have been made dead to the law through the body of Christ so that you might be joined to another, to Him who has been raised from the dead, that we might bear fruit to God.
Rm 7:5For when we were in the flesh, the passions for sins, which acted through the law, operated in our members to bear fruit to death.
Rm 7:6But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that in which we were held, so that we serve in newness of spirit and not in oldness of letter.
Rm 7:7What then shall we say? Is the law sin? Absolutely not! But I did not know sin except through the law; for neither did I know coveting, except the law had said, “You shall not covet.”
Rm 7:8But sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, worked out in me coveting of every kind; for without the law sin is dead.
Rm 7:9And I was alive without the law once; but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died.
Rm 7:10And the commandment, which was unto life, this very commandment was found to me to be unto death.
Rm 7:11For sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me.
Rm 7:12So then the law is holy, and the commandment holy and righteous and good.
Rm 7:13Did then that which is good become death to me? Absolutely not! But sin did, that it might be shown to be sin by working out death in me through that which is good, that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful.
Rm 7:14For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am fleshy, sold under sin.
Rm 7:15For what I work out, I do not acknowledge; for what I will, this I do not practice; but what I hate, this I do.
Rm 7:16But if what I do not will, this I do, I agree with the law that it is good.
Rm 7:17Now then it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
Rm 7:18For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but to work out the good is not.
Rm 7:19For I do not do the good which I will; but the evil which I do not will, this I practice.
Rm 7:20But if what I do not will, this I do, it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
Rm 7:21I find then the law with me who wills to do the good, that is, the evil is present with me.
Rm 7:22For I delight in the law of God according to the inner man,
Rm 7:23But I see a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind and making me a captive to the law of sin which is in my members.
Rm 7:24Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death?
Rm 7:25Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.
Rm 8:1There is now then no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus.
Rm 8:2For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Rm 8:3For that which the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending His own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and concerning sin, condemned sin in the flesh,
Rm 8:4That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit.
Rm 8:5For those who are according to the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the Spirit.
Rm 8:6For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.
Rm 8:7Because the mind set on the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, for neither can it be.
Rm 8:8And those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
Rm 8:9But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Yet if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not of Him.
Rm 8:10But if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness.
Rm 8:11And if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who indwells you.
Rm 8:12So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh;
Rm 8:13For if you live according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the practices of the body, you will live.
Rm 8:14For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.
Rm 8:15For you have not received a spirit of slavery bringing you into fear again, but you have received a spirit of sonship in which we cry, Abba, Father!
Rm 8:16The Spirit Himself witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God.
Rm 8:17And if children, heirs also; on the one hand, heirs of God; on the other, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him that we may also be glorified with Him.
Rm 8:18For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed upon us.
Rm 8:19For the anxious watching of the creation eagerly awaits the revelation of the sons of God.
Rm 8:20For the creation was made subject to vanity, not of its own will, but because of Him who subjected it,
Rm 8:21In hope that the creation itself will also be freed from the slavery of corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
Rm 8:22For we know that the whole creation groans together and travails in pain together until now.
Rm 8:23And not only so, but we ourselves also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan in ourselves, eagerly awaiting sonship, the redemption of our body.
Rm 8:24For we were saved in hope. But a hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees?
Rm 8:25But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly await it through endurance.
Rm 8:26Moreover, in like manner the Spirit also joins in to help us in our weakness, for we do not know for what we should pray as is fitting, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
Rm 8:27But He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to God.
Rm 8:28And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.
Rm 8:29Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated to be conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;
Rm 8:30And those whom He predestinated, these He also called; and those whom He called, these He also justified; and those whom He justified, these He also glorified.
Rm 8:31What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
Rm 8:32Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
Rm 8:33Who shall bring a charge against God’s chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
Rm 8:34Who is he who condemns? It is Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Rm 8:35Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
Rm 8:36As it is written, “For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter.”
Rm 8:37But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
Rm 8:38For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
Rm 8:39Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Rm 9:1I speak the truth in Christ, I do not lie, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit,
Rm 9:2That I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart.
Rm 9:3For I could wish that I myself were a curse, separated from Christ for my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh,
Rm 9:4Who are Israelites, whose are the sonship and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service and the promises;
Rm 9:5Whose are the fathers, and out of whom, as regards what is according to flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.
Rm 9:6But it is not as though the word of God has fallen away, for not all who are out of Israel are Israel;
Rm 9:7Neither is it that because they are the seed of Abraham, they are all children; but, “In Isaac shall your seed be called,”
Rm 9:8That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are accounted as the seed.
Rm 9:9For this is the word of promise, “At this time next year I will come, and Sarah shall have a son.”
Rm 9:10And not only so, but Rebecca also, having conceived by one, Isaac our father,
Rm 9:11Though the children had not yet been born nor had done anything good or bad (that the purpose of God according to selection might remain, not of works but of Him who calls),
Rm 9:12It was said to her, “The greater shall serve the less”;
Rm 9:13As it is written, “Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.”
Rm 9:14What then shall we say? Is there unrighteousness with God? Absolutely not!
Rm 9:15For to Moses He says, “I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion.”
Rm 9:16So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy.
Rm 9:17For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this very thing I have raised you up, that I might show in you My power, and that My name might be proclaimed in all the earth.”
Rm 9:18So then He has mercy on whom He wills, and He hardens whom He wills.
Rm 9:19You will say to me then, Why does He still find fault? For who withstands His will?
Rm 9:20But rather, O man, who are you who answer back to God? Shall the thing molded say to him who molded it, Why did you make me thus?
Rm 9:21Or does not the potter have authority over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor?
Rm 9:22And what if God, wishing to demonstrate His wrath and make His power known, endured with much long-suffering vessels of wrath fitted for destruction,
Rm 9:23In order that He might make known the riches of His glory upon vessels of mercy, which He had before prepared unto glory,
Rm 9:24Even us, whom He has also called, not only from among the Jews but also from among the Gentiles?
Rm 9:25As He also says in Hosea, “I will call those who were not My people My people, and her who was not beloved beloved;
Rm 9:26And it shall be that in the place where it was said to them, You are not My people, there shall they be called sons of the living God.”
Rm 9:27And Isaiah cries concerning Israel, “Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that shall be saved;
Rm 9:28For the Lord will execute His word upon the earth, accomplishing it and cutting it short.”
Rm 9:29And as Isaiah has previously said, “Unless the Lord of hosts had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom and been made like Gomorrah.”
Rm 9:30What then shall we say? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have laid hold of righteousness, but a righteousness which is out of faith;
Rm 9:31But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not attain to that law.
Rm 9:32Why? Because they pursued it not out of faith, but as it were out of works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling,
Rm 9:33As it is written, “Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, and he who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.”
Rm 10:1Brothers, the good pleasure of my heart and my petition to God for them is for their salvation.
Rm 10:2For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to full knowledge;
Rm 10:3For because they were ignorant of God’s righteousness and sought to establish their own righteousness, they were not subject to the righteousness of God.
Rm 10:4For Christ is the end of the law unto righteousness to everyone who believes.
Rm 10:5For Moses writes concerning the righteousness which is out of the law: “The man who does them shall live by them.”
Rm 10:6But the righteousness which is out of faith speaks in this way, Do not say in your heart, “Who will ascend into heaven?” that is, to bring Christ down;
Rm 10:7Or, “Who will descend into the abyss?” that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.
Rm 10:8But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart,” that is, the word of the faith which we proclaim,
Rm 10:9That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved;
Rm 10:10For with the heart there is believing unto righteousness, and with the mouth there is confession unto salvation.
Rm 10:11For the Scripture says, “Everyone who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.”
Rm 10:12For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all and rich to all who call upon Him;
Rm 10:13For “whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.”
Rm 10:14How then shall they call upon Him into whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe into Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without one who proclaims Him?
Rm 10:15And how shall they proclaim Him unless they are sent? As it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who announce the news of good things!”
Rm 10:16But not all have obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?”
Rm 10:17So faith comes out of hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
Rm 10:18But I say, Have they not heard? Yes surely: “Their voice has gone out into all the earth and their words to the ends of the inhabited earth.”
Rm 10:19But I say, Did Israel not know this? First, Moses says, “I will provoke you to jealousy by them who are not a nation; by a nation without understanding I will anger you.”
Rm 10:20And Isaiah is very bold and says, “I was found by those who did not seek Me; I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me.”
Rm 10:21But with regard to Israel he says, “All the day long I have stretched out My hands to a people who disobey and contradict.”
Rm 11:1I say then, Has God cast away His people? Absolutely not! For I also am an Israelite, out of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
Rm 11:2God has not cast away His people whom He foreknew. Or do you not know what the Scripture says in the passage concerning Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel?
Rm 11:3“Lord, they have killed Your prophets, they have torn down Your altars; and I am left alone, and they are seeking my life.”
Rm 11:4But what does the divine answer say to him? “I have reserved for Myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
Rm 11:5In the same way then at the present time also there has come into being a remnant according to the selection of grace.
Rm 11:6But if by grace, it is no longer out of works; otherwise grace is no longer grace.
Rm 11:7What then? That which Israel is seeking after, this it has not obtained, but the chosen have obtained it, and the rest have been hardened;
Rm 11:8As it is written, “God gave them a spirit of deep sleep, eyes to see not and ears to hear not, until this very day.”
Rm 11:9And David says, “Let their table become a snare and a trap and a stumbling block and a retribution to them;
Rm 11:10Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see; and bend their back continually.”
Rm 11:11I say then, Have they stumbled so as to fall? Absolutely not! But by their misstep salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
Rm 11:12But if their misstep has become riches for the world, and their loss, riches for the Gentiles, how much more their fullness!
Rm 11:13But I am speaking to you, the Gentiles. Inasmuch therefore as I am an apostle of the Gentiles, I glorify my ministry,
Rm 11:14If perhaps I may provoke those of my flesh to jealousy and save some of them.
Rm 11:15For if their being cast aside is the reconciliation of the world, what will their being received back be, if not life from the dead?
Rm 11:16Now if the dough offered as the firstfruits is holy, the lump is also; and if the root is holy, the branches are also.
Rm 11:17But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them and became a fellow partaker of the root of fatness of the olive tree,
Rm 11:18Do not boast against the branches; but if you boast, remember that it is not you who bear the root, but the root you.
Rm 11:19You will say then, Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.
Rm 11:20Rightly said: they were broken off because of unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be high-minded, but fear;
Rm 11:21For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will He spare you.
Rm 11:22Behold then the kindness and severity of God: on those who fell, severity; but on you, the kindness of God, if you continue in His kindness; otherwise you also will be cut off.
Rm 11:23And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
Rm 11:24For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into the cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree!
Rm 11:25For I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant of this mystery (lest you be wise in yourselves), that hardness has come upon Israel in part, until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in;
Rm 11:26And thus all Israel will be saved, as it is written, “The Deliverer will come out of Zion; He will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
Rm 11:27And this is the covenant from Me with them, when I take away their sins.”
Rm 11:28According to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but according to the selection they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
Rm 11:29For the gracious gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
Rm 11:30For just as you once disobeyed God, but now have been shown mercy because of their disobedience,
Rm 11:31So these also now have disobeyed, so that because of the mercy shown to you they also now may be shown mercy.
Rm 11:32For God has shut up all in disobedience that He might show mercy to all.
Rm 11:33Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments and untraceable His ways!
Rm 11:34For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become His counselor?
Rm 11:35Or who has first given to Him, and it will be repaid to him?
Rm 11:36Because out from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen.
Rm 12:1I exhort you therefore, brothers, through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, which is your reasonable service.
Rm 12:2And do not be fashioned according to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of the mind that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and well pleasing and perfect.
Rm 12:3For I say, through the grace given to me, to everyone who is among you, not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to be sober-minded, as God has apportioned to each a measure of faith.
Rm 12:4For just as in one body we have many members, and all the members do not have the same function,
Rm 12:5So we who are many are one Body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
Rm 12:6And having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;
Rm 12:7Or service, let us be faithful in that service; or he who teaches, in that teaching;
Rm 12:8Or he who exhorts, in that exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who leads, in diligence; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.
Rm 12:9Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil; cling to what is good.
Rm 12:10Love one another warmly in brotherly love; take the lead in showing honor one to another.
Rm 12:11Do not be slothful in zeal, but be burning in spirit, serving the Lord.
Rm 12:12Rejoice in hope; endure in tribulation; persevere in prayer.
Rm 12:13Contribute to the needs of the saints; pursue hospitality.
Rm 12:14Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse.
Rm 12:15Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep.
Rm 12:16Be of the same mind toward one another, not setting your mind on the high things but going along with the lowly; do not be wise in yourselves.
Rm 12:17Repay no one evil for evil; take forethought for things honorable in the sight of all men.
Rm 12:18If possible, as far as it depends on you, live in peace with all men.
Rm 12:19Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to the wrath of God, for it is written, “Vengeance is Mine; I will repay, says the Lord.”
Rm 12:20But “if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing this you will heap coals of fire upon his head.”
Rm 12:21Do not be conquered by evil, but conquer evil with good.
Rm 13:1Let every person be subject to the authorities over him, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are ordained by God.
Rm 13:2So then he who resists the authority opposes God’s ordination, and those who oppose will receive judgment to themselves.
Rm 13:3For the rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Do you want to have no fear of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from him;
Rm 13:4For he is a servant of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, fear; he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is a servant of God, an avenger for wrath to him who practices evil.
Rm 13:5Therefore it is necessary to be subject, not only because of wrath but also because of conscience.
Rm 13:6For because of this you also pay taxes; for they are God’s officers, attending constantly to this very thing.
Rm 13:7Render to all the things due: tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom is due, fear to whom fear is due, honor to whom honor is due.
Rm 13:8Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another; for he who loves the other has fulfilled the law.
Rm 13:9For, “You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet,” and if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this word, namely, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Rm 13:10Love does not work evil to his neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.
Rm 13:11And this, knowing the time, that it is already the hour for you to be raised from sleep; for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.
Rm 13:12The night is far advanced, and the day has drawn near. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the weapons of light.
Rm 13:13Let us walk becomingly as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in fornication and licentiousness, not in strife and jealousy.
Rm 13:14But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts.
Rm 14:1Now him who is weak in faith receive, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his considerations.
Rm 14:2One believes that he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables.
Rm 14:3He who eats, let him not despise him who does not eat; and he who does not eat, let him not judge him who eats, for God has received him.
Rm 14:4Who are you who judge another’s household servant? To his own master he stands or falls; and he will be made to stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
Rm 14:5One judges one day above another; another judges every day alike. Let each be fully persuaded in his own mind.
Rm 14:6He who regards that day, regards it to the Lord; and he who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat, does not eat to the Lord, and he gives thanks to God.
Rm 14:7For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself;
Rm 14:8For whether we live, we live to the Lord, and whether we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore whether we live or we die, we are the Lord’s.
Rm 14:9For Christ died and lived again for this, that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.
Rm 14:10But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God,
Rm 14:11For it is written, “As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every tongue shall openly confess to God.”
Rm 14:12So then each one of us will give an account concerning himself to God.
Rm 14:13Therefore let us judge one another no longer, but rather judge this: not to put a stumbling block or cause of falling before your brother.
Rm 14:14I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself, except to him who considers something to be unclean; to that man it is unclean.
Rm 14:15For if because of food your brother is wounded, you no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy by your food that man for whom Christ died.
Rm 14:16Therefore do not let your good be slandered;
Rm 14:17For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
Rm 14:18For he who serves Christ in this is well pleasing to God and approved by men.
Rm 14:19So then let us pursue the things of peace and the things for building up one another.
Rm 14:20Do not break down the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but it is evil for a man to eat while stumbling others.
Rm 14:21It is good not to eat meat nor drink wine nor to do anything by which your brother stumbles.
Rm 14:22The faith which you have, have to yourself before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in what he approves;
Rm 14:23But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it is not out of faith; for all that is not out of faith is sin.
Rm 15:1But we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those who are weak and not to please ourselves.
Rm 15:2Let each of us please his neighbor with a view to what is good for building up.
Rm 15:3For Christ also did not please Himself, but as it is written, “The reproaches of those who reproached You fell upon Me.”
Rm 15:4For the things that were written previously were written for our instruction, in order that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
Rm 15:5Now the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind toward one another according to Christ Jesus,
Rm 15:6That with one accord you may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Rm 15:7Therefore receive one another, as Christ also received you to the glory of God.
Rm 15:8For I say that Christ has become a servant of the circumcision for the sake of God’s truthfulness, to confirm the promises given to the fathers,
Rm 15:9And that the Gentiles should glorify God for His mercy, as it is written, “Therefore I will extol You among the Gentiles, and I will sing praise to Your name.”
Rm 15:10And again he says, “Rejoice, Gentiles, with His people.”
Rm 15:11And again, “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples speak praise to Him.”
Rm 15:12And again, Isaiah says, “There shall be the root of Jesse, even He who rises to rule the Gentiles; on Him will the Gentiles hope.”
Rm 15:13Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope in the power of the Holy Spirit.
Rm 15:14But I myself also am persuaded concerning you, my brothers, that you yourselves also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another.
Rm 15:15But I have written the more boldly to you on some points so as to remind you of them again because of the grace given to me by God
Rm 15:16That I might be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, a laboring priest of the gospel of God, in order that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, having been sanctified in the Holy Spirit.
Rm 15:17I have therefore my boasting in Christ Jesus in the things pertaining to God.
Rm 15:18For I will not dare to speak anything of the things which Christ has not accomplished through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and by work,
Rm 15:19In the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem and round about to Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ,
Rm 15:20But have done so aspiring to announce the gospel not where Christ has been named, so that I would not build upon another’s foundation;
Rm 15:21But as it is written, “They will see, they to whom nothing concerning Him was announced; and those who have not heard will understand.”
Rm 15:22For this reason also I have been hindered these many times from coming to you.
Rm 15:23But now I no longer have place in these regions and have had a desire since many years ago to come to you
Rm 15:24Whenever I may go to Spain, for I hope to see you in passing and be sent forward there by you, if first I am filled, at least in part, by your company.
Rm 15:25But now I am going to Jerusalem, ministering to the saints.
Rm 15:26For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.
Rm 15:27For they were pleased to do it, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they ought also to do service to them in material things.
Rm 15:28When therefore I have finished this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will go on by way of you to Spain.
Rm 15:29And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.
Rm 15:30Now I exhort you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
Rm 15:31That I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
Rm 15:32So that coming to you in joy through the will of God, I may refresh myself and rest with you.
Rm 15:33Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
Rm 16:1I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a deaconess of the church which is in Cenchrea,
Rm 16:2That you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints and assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you; for she herself has also been the patroness of many, of myself as well.
Rm 16:3Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
Rm 16:4Who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;
Rm 16:5And greet the church, which is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the firstfruits of Asia unto Christ.
Rm 16:6Greet Mary, one who has labored much for you.
Rm 16:7Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Rm 16:8Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
Rm 16:9Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.
Rm 16:10Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those of the household of Aristobulus.
Rm 16:11Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord.
Rm 16:12Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved sister, one who has labored much in the Lord.
Rm 16:13Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother as well as mine.
Rm 16:14Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers with them.
Rm 16:15Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
Rm 16:16Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
Rm 16:17Now I exhort you, brothers, to mark those who make divisions and causes of stumbling contrary to the teaching which you have learned, and turn away from them.
Rm 16:18For such men do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own stomach, and through smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple.
Rm 16:19For the report of your obedience has reached to all; therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and guileless as to what is evil.
Rm 16:20Now the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
Rm 16:21Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as well as Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
Rm 16:22I, Tertius, who write this epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Rm 16:23Gaius, my host and host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, greets you, and Quartus the brother.
Rm 16:24[Some ancient MSS add v.24, The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.]
Rm 16:25Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, that is, the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which has been kept in silence in the times of the ages
Rm 16:26But has now been manifested, and through the prophetic writings, according to the command of the eternal God, has been made known to all the Gentiles for the obedience of faith;
Rm 16:27To the only wise God through Jesus Christ, to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
1Co 1:1Paul, a called apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Sosthenes the brother,
1Co 1:2To the church of God which is in Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, the called saints, with all those who call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, who is theirs and ours:
1Co 1:3Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1Co 1:4I thank my God always concerning you based upon the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus,
1Co 1:5That in everything you were enriched in Him, in all utterance and all knowledge,
1Co 1:6Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you,
1Co 1:7So that you do not lack in any gift, eagerly awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1Co 1:8Who will also confirm you until the end unreprovable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Co 1:9God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1Co 1:10Now I beseech you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be attuned in the same mind and in the same opinion.
1Co 1:11For it has been made clear to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of the household of Chloe, that there are strifes among you.
1Co 1:12Now I mean this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
1Co 1:13Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?
1Co 1:14I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
1Co 1:15That no one may say that you were baptized into my name.
1Co 1:16And I did baptize the household of Stephanas also; beyond that I do not know if I baptized any other.
1Co 1:17For Christ did not send me to baptize but to announce the gospel, not in wisdom of speech that the cross of Christ may not be made void.
1Co 1:18For the word of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
1Co 1:19For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the understanding of those who understand I will set aside.”
1Co 1:20Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish?
1Co 1:21For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the preaching to save those who believe.
1Co 1:22For indeed Jews require signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1Co 1:23But we preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness,
1Co 1:24But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
1Co 1:25Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1Co 1:26For consider your calling, brothers, that there are not many wise according to flesh, not many powerful, not many wellborn.
1Co 1:27But God has chosen the foolish things of the world that He might shame those who are wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world that He might shame the things that are strong,
1Co 1:28And the lowborn things of the world and the despised things God has chosen, things which are not, that He might bring to nought the things which are,
1Co 1:29So that no flesh may boast before God.
1Co 1:30But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom to us from God: both righteousness and sanctification and redemption,
1Co 1:31That as it is written, “He who boasts, let him boast in the Lord.”
1Co 2:1And I, when I came to you, brothers, came not according to excellence of speech or of wisdom, announcing to you the mystery of God.
1Co 2:2For I did not determine to know anything among you except Jesus Christ, and this One crucified.
1Co 2:3And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling;
1Co 2:4And my speech and my proclamation were not in persuasive words of wisdom but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
1Co 2:5In order that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
1Co 2:6But we do speak wisdom among those who are full-grown, yet a wisdom not of this age nor of the rulers of this age, who are being brought to nought;
1Co 2:7But we speak God’s wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom which has been hidden, which God predestined before the ages for our glory,
1Co 2:8Which none of the rulers of this age have known; for if they had known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory;
1Co 2:9But as it is written, “Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and which have not come up in man’s heart; things which God has prepared for those who love Him.”
1Co 2:10But to us God has revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
1Co 2:11For who among men knows the things of man, except the spirit of man which is in him? In the same way, the things of God also no one has known except the Spirit of God.
1Co 2:12But we have received not the spirit of the world but the Spirit which is from God, that we may know the things which have been graciously given to us by God;
1Co 2:13Which things also we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual things with spiritual words.
1Co 2:14But a soulish man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him and he is not able to know them because they are discerned spiritually.
1Co 2:15But the spiritual man discerns all things, but he himself is discerned by no one.
1Co 2:16For who has known the mind of the Lord and will instruct Him? But we have the mind of Christ.
1Co 3:1And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshy, as to infants in Christ.
1Co 3:2I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. But neither yet now are you able,
1Co 3:3For you are still fleshly. For if there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly and do you not walk according to the manner of man?
1Co 3:4For when someone says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are you not men of flesh?
1Co 3:5What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Ministers through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to each one of them.
1Co 3:6I planted, Apollos watered, but God caused the growth.
1Co 3:7So then neither is he who plants anything nor he who waters, but God who causes the growth.
1Co 3:8Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.
1Co 3:9For we are God’s fellow workers; you are God’s cultivated land, God’s building.
1Co 3:10According to the grace of God given to me, as a wise master builder I have laid a foundation, and another builds upon it. But let each man take heed how he builds upon it.
1Co 3:11For another foundation no one is able to lay besides that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
1Co 3:12But if anyone builds upon the foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, stubble,
1Co 3:13The work of each will become manifest; for the day will declare it, because it is revealed by fire, and the fire itself will prove each one’s work, of what sort it is.
1Co 3:14If anyone’s work which he has built upon the foundation remains, he will receive a reward;
1Co 3:15If anyone’s work is consumed, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire.
1Co 3:16Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
1Co 3:17If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; for the temple of God is holy, and such are you.
1Co 3:18Let no one deceive himself; if anyone thinks that he is wise among you in this age, let him become foolish that he may become wise.
1Co 3:19For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written, “He grasps the wise in their craftiness”;
1Co 3:20And again, “The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are vain.”
1Co 3:21So then let no one boast in men, for all things are yours,
1Co 3:22Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come; all are yours,
1Co 3:23But you are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.
1Co 4:1A man should account us in this way, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
1Co 4:2Here, furthermore, it is sought in stewards that one be found faithful.
1Co 4:3But to me it is a very small thing that I should be examined by you or by man’s day; rather I do not even examine myself.
1Co 4:4For I am conscious of nothing against myself; but I am not justified in this, but He who examines me is the Lord.
1Co 4:5So then do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and make manifest the counsels of the hearts, and then there will be praise to each from God.
1Co 4:6Now these things, brothers, I have transferred in figure to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that you may learn in us the matter of not going beyond what has been written, that none of you may be puffed up on behalf of one, against the other.
1Co 4:7For who distinguishes you? And what do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as though not having received it?
1Co 4:8Already you are filled; already you have become rich; you have reigned without us. And I would have it indeed that you did reign, that we also might reign with you.
1Co 4:9For, I think, God has set forth us the apostles last of all as doomed to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men.
1Co 4:10We are fools because of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are glorious, but we are dishonored.
1Co 4:11Until the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked and buffeted and wander without a home;
1Co 4:12And we labor, working with our own hands. Reviled we bless; persecuted we endure;
1Co 4:13Defamed we exhort. We have become as the offscouring of the world, the scum of all things, until now.
1Co 4:14It is not to shame you that I write these things but to admonish you as my beloved children.
1Co 4:15For though you have ten thousand guides in Christ, yet you do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.
1Co 4:16I exhort you therefore, Become imitators of me.
1Co 4:17Because of this I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every church.
1Co 4:18Now some have become puffed up as though I were not coming to you.
1Co 4:19But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord wills, and I will ascertain not the speech of those who are puffed up but the power.
1Co 4:20For the kingdom of God is not in speech but in power.
1Co 4:21What do you want? Should I come to you with a rod or in love and a spirit of meekness?
1Co 5:1It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication that does not even occur among the Gentiles, that someone has his stepmother.
1Co 5:2And you are puffed up? And have you not rather mourned, that the one who has done this deed might be removed from your midst?
1Co 5:3For I, on my part, though being absent in the body but present in the spirit, have already judged, as if being present, him who has thus done this,
1Co 5:4In the name of our Lord Jesus, when you and my spirit have been assembled, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
1Co 5:5To deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
1Co 5:6Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
1Co 5:7Purge out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened; for our Passover, Christ, also has been sacrificed.
1Co 5:8So then let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1Co 5:9I wrote to you in my letter not to mingle with fornicators,
1Co 5:10But not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous and rapacious, or idolaters, since then you would have to go out of the world.
1Co 5:11But now I have written to you not to mingle with anyone who is called a brother, if he is a fornicator or a covetous man or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or a rapacious man, with such a one not even to eat.
1Co 5:12For what have I to do with judging those who are outside the church? Do you not judge those who are within the church?
1Co 5:13But those who are outside, God will judge. Remove the evil man from among yourselves.
1Co 6:1Does any one of you who has a case against another dare to be judged before the unrighteous and not before the saints?
1Co 6:2Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy of the smallest judgments?
1Co 6:3Do you not know that we will judge angels, not to mention things of this life?
1Co 6:4If then you hold judgments over things of this life, do you seat as judges those who are of no account in the church?
1Co 6:5I say this to your shame. So there is no one wise among you, who will be able to discern between his brothers?
1Co 6:6But brother goes to court with brother, and this before unbelievers.
1Co 6:7Already then it is altogether a defeat to you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
1Co 6:8But you wrong and defraud, and this your brothers.
1Co 6:9Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be led astray; neither fornicators nor idolaters nor adulterers nor effeminate nor homosexuals
1Co 6:10Nor thieves nor the covetous, not drunkards, not revilers, not the rapacious will inherit the kingdom of God.
1Co 6:11And these things were some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
1Co 6:12All things are lawful to me, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of anything.
1Co 6:13Foods are for the stomach, and the stomach for foods; but God will bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
1Co 6:14And God has both raised up the Lord and will raise us up through His power.
1Co 6:15Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Absolutely not!
1Co 6:16Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For He says, “The two shall be one flesh.”
1Co 6:17But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
1Co 6:18Flee fornication. Every sin which a man may do is outside the body, but he who commits fornication sins against his own body.
1Co 6:19Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own?
1Co 6:20For you have been bought with a price. So then glorify God in your body.
1Co 7:1Now concerning the things of which you wrote: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
1Co 7:2But because of fornication, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
1Co 7:3Let the husband render to his wife that which is due, and likewise also the wife to the husband.
1Co 7:4The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; and likewise the husband also does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.
1Co 7:5Do not deprive each other, except by agreement for a time that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and then be together again, that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
1Co 7:6But this I say by way of concession, not by way of command.
1Co 7:7Yet I wish all men to be even as I am myself; but each has his own gift from God, one in this way, the other in that.
1Co 7:8But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I am.
1Co 7:9But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn with desire.
1Co 7:10But to the married I charge, not I but the Lord, A wife must not be separated from her husband
1Co 7:11(But if indeed she is separated, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband), and a husband must not leave his wife.
1Co 7:12But to the rest I say, I, not the Lord, If any brother has an unbelieving wife and she consents to dwell with him, he must not leave her;
1Co 7:13And a wife who has an unbelieving husband, and if he consents to dwell with her, must not leave her husband.
1Co 7:14For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the brother; otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy.
1Co 7:15But if the unbelieving one separates, let him separate; the brother or the sister is not enslaved in such cases, but God has called us in peace.
1Co 7:16For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?
1Co 7:17However as the Lord has apportioned to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches.
1Co 7:18Was anyone called having been circumcised? He need not efface it. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He need not be circumcised.
1Co 7:19Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of God’s commandments is what counts.
1Co 7:20Each one, in the calling in which he was called, in this let him remain.
1Co 7:21Were you called as a slave? Let it not concern you; but even if you are able to become free, use your status as a slave rather.
1Co 7:22For the slave who has been called in the Lord is the Lord’s freedman; likewise the free man who has been called is Christ’s slave.
1Co 7:23You were bought with a price; do not be slaves of men.
1Co 7:24Each one, brothers, in what status he was called, in this let him remain with God.
1Co 7:25Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord, but I give my opinion as one who has been shown mercy by the Lord to be faithful.
1Co 7:26I consider then that this is good because of the present necessity, that it is good for a man to be as he is.
1Co 7:27Have you been bound to a wife? Do not seek a release. Have you been released from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
1Co 7:28But even if you do marry, you have not sinned; and if the virgin marries, she has not sinned; but such ones will have affliction in the flesh, and I am trying to spare you.
1Co 7:29But this I say, brothers, the time is shortened. Henceforth both those who have wives should be as though they had none,
1Co 7:30And those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess,
1Co 7:31And those who use the world as though they did not abuse it; for the fashion of this world is passing away.
1Co 7:32But I desire you to be without care. The unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord;
1Co 7:33But he who has married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife,
1Co 7:34And is distracted. Both the unmarried woman and the virgin care for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit; but she who has married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
1Co 7:35But this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a noose upon you but that you may be comely and may wait on the Lord without distraction.
1Co 7:36But if anyone thinks that he is behaving unbecomingly to his virgin daughter, if she is past the bloom of youth and thus it must be so, let him do what he wishes, he does not sin; let them marry.
1Co 7:37But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, and has authority with respect to his own will and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his own virgin daughter, he will do well.
1Co 7:38So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better.
1Co 7:39A wife is bound for so long a time as her husband lives; but should the husband fall asleep, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only to one in the Lord.
1Co 7:40But she is more blessed if she so remains, according to my opinion; but I think that I also have the Spirit of God.
1Co 8:1Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
1Co 8:2If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he has not yet come to know as he ought to know;
1Co 8:3But if anyone loves God, this one is known by Him.
1Co 8:4Therefore concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is no God but one.
1Co 8:5For even if there are so-called gods, either in heaven or on earth, even as there are many gods and many lords,
1Co 8:6Yet to us there is one God, the Father, out from whom are all things, and we are unto Him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we are through Him.
1Co 8:7But this knowledge is not in all men; but some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat the food as an idol sacrifice, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
1Co 8:8But food will not commend us to God; neither if we do not eat are we lacking, nor if we eat do we abound.
1Co 8:9But beware lest somehow this right of yours become a stumbling block to the weak ones.
1Co 8:10For if anyone sees you who have knowledge reclining at table in an idol temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat the things sacrificed to the idols?
1Co 8:11For the one who is weak is being destroyed by your knowledge, the brother because of whom Christ died.
1Co 8:12And sinning in this way against the brothers and wounding their weak conscience, you sin against Christ.
1Co 8:13Therefore if food stumbles my brother, I shall by no means eat meat forever, that I may not stumble my brother.
1Co 9:1Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
1Co 9:2If to others I am not an apostle, yet surely I am to you; for you in the Lord are the seal of my apostleship.
1Co 9:3My defense to those who examine me is this.
1Co 9:4Do we not have a right to eat and to drink?
1Co 9:5Do we not have a right to take along a sister as a wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
1Co 9:6Or do only I and Barnabas not have the right not to work?
1Co 9:7What soldier ever serves by his own wages? Who plants a vineyard and does not partake of its fruit? Or who shepherds a flock and does not partake of the milk of the flock?
1Co 9:8Am I speaking these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things?
1Co 9:9For in the law of Moses it is written: “You shall not muzzle the ox while it is treading out the grain.” Is it for oxen that God cares?
1Co 9:10Or does He say it altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written because the plowman should plow in hope, and he who threshes, in hope of partaking.
1Co 9:11If we have sown to you the spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap from you the fleshly things?
1Co 9:12If others partake of this right over you, should not rather we? Yet we did not use this right, but we bear all things that we may not cause any hindrance to the gospel of Christ.
1Co 9:13Do you not know that those who labor on the sacred things eat the things of the sacred temple, that those who attend to the altar have their portion with the altar?
1Co 9:14So also the Lord directed those who announce the gospel to live from the gospel.
1Co 9:15But I myself have not used any of these things; and I have not written these things that it may be so with me; for it is good for me rather to die than — No one shall make my boast void.
1Co 9:16For if I preach the gospel, I have no boast, for necessity is laid upon me; for woe to me if I do not preach the gospel.
1Co 9:17If I do this of my own will, I have a reward; but if not of my own will, I am entrusted with a stewardship.
1Co 9:18What then is my reward? That in preaching the gospel I may present the gospel without charge, so as not to use to the full my right in the gospel.
1Co 9:19For though I am free from all, I have enslaved myself to all that I might gain the more.
1Co 9:20And to the Jews I became as a Jew in order that I might gain Jews; to those under law, as under law (though I myself am not under law), that I might gain those under law.
1Co 9:21To those without law, as without law (though I am not without law to God but within law to Christ), that I might gain those without law.
1Co 9:22To the weak I became weak that I might gain the weak. To all men I have become all things that I might by all means save some.
1Co 9:23And I do all things for the sake of the gospel that I may become a fellow partaker of it.
1Co 9:24Do you not know that those who run on a racecourse all run, but one receives the prize? Run in this way, that you may lay hold.
1Co 9:25And everyone who contends exercises self-control in all things; they then, that they may receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible.
1Co 9:26I therefore run in this way, not as though without a clear aim; I box in this way, not as though beating the air;
1Co 9:27But I buffet my body and make it my slave, lest perhaps having preached to others, I myself may become disapproved.
1Co 10:1For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
1Co 10:2And all were baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;
1Co 10:3And all ate the same spiritual food,
1Co 10:4And all drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank of a spiritual rock which followed them, and the rock was Christ.
1Co 10:5But with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were strewn along in the wilderness.
1Co 10:6Now these things occurred as examples to us, that we should not be ones who lust after evil things, even as they also lusted.
1Co 10:7Neither become idolaters, as some of them did; as it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play.”
1Co 10:8Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day twenty-three thousand.
1Co 10:9Neither let us test Christ, as some of them tested Him and were destroyed by the serpents.
1Co 10:10Neither murmur, just as some of them murmured and perished by the destroyer.
1Co 10:11Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our admonition, unto whom the ends of the ages have come.
1Co 10:12So then let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.
1Co 10:13No temptation has taken you except that which is common to man; and God is faithful, who will not allow that you be tempted beyond what you are able, but will, with the temptation, also make the way out, that you may be able to endure it.
1Co 10:14Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
1Co 10:15I speak as to prudent men; you judge what I say.
1Co 10:16The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the fellowship of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the fellowship of the body of Christ?
1Co 10:17Seeing that there is one bread, we who are many are one Body; for we all partake of the one bread.
1Co 10:18Look at Israel according to the flesh. Are not those who eat the sacrifices those who have fellowship with the altar?
1Co 10:19What then am I saying? That what is sacrificed to an idol is anything? Or that an idol is anything?
1Co 10:20No, but that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God; and I do not want you to become those who have fellowship with demons.
1Co 10:21You cannot drink the Lord’s cup and the demons’ cup; you cannot partake of the Lord’s table and of the demons’ table.
1Co 10:22Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?
1Co 10:23All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful, but not all things build up.
1Co 10:24Let no one seek his own profit, but that of the other.
1Co 10:25Everything sold in a meat market eat, asking no question for conscience’ sake;
1Co 10:26For the earth is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof.
1Co 10:27If any of the unbelievers invites you and you wish to go, eat everything that is set before you, asking no question for conscience’ sake.
1Co 10:28But if anyone says to you, This has been offered in sacrifice, do not eat, for his sake who pointed it out and for conscience’ sake.
1Co 10:29Conscience, I say, not your own, but the other’s. For why is my freedom judged by some other conscience?
1Co 10:30If I partake with thankfulness, why am I spoken evil of concerning that for which I give thanks?
1Co 10:31Therefore whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
1Co 10:32Do not become a stumbling block, both to Jews and to Greeks and to the church of God;
1Co 10:33Even as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own advantage but that of the many, that they may be saved.
1Co 11:1Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
1Co 11:2But I praise you because in all things you have remembered me and hold fast the things that I have handed down even as I handed them down to you.
1Co 11:3But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of the woman, and God is the head of Christ.
1Co 11:4Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered disgraces his head.
1Co 11:5But every woman praying or prophesying with her head uncovered disgraces her head; for it is one and the same as she who is shaved.
1Co 11:6For if a woman is not covered, let her hair also be cut off; but if it is shameful for a woman to have her hair cut off or to be shaved, let her be covered.
1Co 11:7For a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is God’s image and glory; but the woman is the glory of the man.
1Co 11:8For man is not out of woman, but woman out of man;
1Co 11:9For also man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man.
1Co 11:10Therefore the woman ought to have a sign of submission to authority on her head for the sake of the angels.
1Co 11:11However neither is woman without man, nor man without woman, in the Lord.
1Co 11:12For just as the woman is out from the man, so also is the man through the woman; but all things are out from God.
1Co 11:13Judge this in your own selves: Is it fitting for a woman to pray uncovered to God?
1Co 11:14Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him,
1Co 11:15But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her? For her long hair has been given to her for a covering.
1Co 11:16But if anyone seems to be contentious, we do not have such a custom of being so, neither the churches of God.
1Co 11:17But I give you this charge and do not praise you, because you come together not for the better but for the worse.
1Co 11:18For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and some part of it I believe.
1Co 11:19For there must even be parties among you, that those who are approved may become manifest among you.
1Co 11:20When therefore you come together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord’s supper;
1Co 11:21For in your eating, each one takes his own supper first, and one is hungry and the other is drunk.
1Co 11:22Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and put those to shame who have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I do not praise you.
1Co 11:23For I received from the Lord that which also I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was betrayed took bread,
1Co 11:24And having given thanks, He broke it and said, This is My body, which is given for you; this do unto the remembrance of Me.
1Co 11:25Similarly also the cup after they had dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant established in My blood; this do, as often as you drink it, unto the remembrance of Me.
1Co 11:26For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you declare the Lord’s death until He comes.
1Co 11:27So then whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord.
1Co 11:28But let a man prove himself, and in this way let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
1Co 11:29For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not discern the body.
1Co 11:30Because of this many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep.
1Co 11:31But if we discerned ourselves, we would not be judged.
1Co 11:32But being judged by the Lord, we are disciplined that we may not be condemned with the world.
1Co 11:33So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.
1Co 11:34If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may not come together for judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come.
1Co 12:1Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.
1Co 12:2You know that when you were Gentiles, you were always being led away to dumb idols, whenever and however you were led.
1Co 12:3Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking in the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed; and no one can say, Jesus is Lord! except in the Holy Spirit.
1Co 12:4But there are distinctions of gifts, but the same Spirit;
1Co 12:5And there are distinctions of ministries, yet the same Lord;
1Co 12:6And there are distinctions of operations, but the same God, who operates all things in all.
1Co 12:7But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is profitable.
1Co 12:8For to one through the Spirit a word of wisdom is given, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
1Co 12:9To a different one faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing in the one Spirit,
1Co 12:10And to another operations of works of power, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits; to a different one various kinds of tongues, and to another interpretation of tongues.
1Co 12:11But the one and the same Spirit operates all these things, distributing to each one respectively even as He purposes.
1Co 12:12For even as the body is one and has many members, yet all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ.
1Co 12:13For also in one Spirit we were all baptized into one Body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and were all given to drink one Spirit.
1Co 12:14For the body is not one member but many.
1Co 12:15If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
1Co 12:16And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
1Co 12:17If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were the hearing, where would the smelling be?
1Co 12:18But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, even as He willed.
1Co 12:19And if all were one member, where would the body be?
1Co 12:20But now the members are many, but the body one.
1Co 12:21And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
1Co 12:22But much rather the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary.
1Co 12:23And those members of the body which we consider to be less honorable, these we clothe with more abundant honor; and our uncomely members come to have more abundant comeliness,
1Co 12:24But our comely members have no need. But God has blended the body together, giving more abundant honor to the member that lacked,
1Co 12:25That there would be no division in the body, but that the members would have the same care for one another.
1Co 12:26And whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; or one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it.
1Co 12:27Now you are the Body of Christ, and members individually.
1Co 12:28And God has placed some in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers; then works of power, then gifts of healing, helps, administrations, various kinds of tongues.
1Co 12:29Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all have works of power?
1Co 12:30Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret tongues?
1Co 12:31But earnestly desire the greater gifts. And moreover I show to you a most excellent way.
1Co 13:1If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but do not have love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal.
1Co 13:2And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
1Co 13:3And if I dole out all my possessions to feed others, and if I deliver up my body that I may boast, but do not have love, I profit nothing.
1Co 13:4Love suffers long. Love is kind; it is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not puffed up;
1Co 13:5It does not behave unbecomingly and does not seek its own things; it is not provoked and does not take account of evil;
1Co 13:6It does not rejoice because of unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth;
1Co 13:7It covers all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
1Co 13:8Love never falls away. But whether prophecies, they will be rendered useless; or tongues, they will cease; or knowledge, it will be rendered useless.
1Co 13:9For we know in part, and we prophesy in part;
1Co 13:10But when that which is complete comes, that which is in part will be rendered useless.
1Co 13:11When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I thought as a child, I reasoned as a child; since I have become a man, I have done away with childish things.
1Co 13:12For now we see in a mirror obscurely, but at that time face to face; now I know in part, but at that time I will fully know even as also I was fully known.
1Co 13:13Now there abide faith, hope, love, these three; and the greatest of these is love.
1Co 14:1Pursue love, and desire earnestly spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy.
1Co 14:2For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God; for no one hears, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries.
1Co 14:3But he who prophesies speaks building up and encouragement and consolation to men.
1Co 14:4He who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but he who prophesies builds up the church.
1Co 14:5I desire that you all speak in tongues, but especially that you would prophesy; and greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, that the church may receive building up.
1Co 14:6But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you, unless I speak to you either in revelation or in knowledge or in prophecy or in teaching?
1Co 14:7Yet even lifeless things, whether flute or harp, in giving a sound, if they give no distinction in the tones, how will what is played on the flute or on the harp be known?
1Co 14:8For also if the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
1Co 14:9So also you, unless you give with the tongue a word easy to understand, how will what is being said be known? For you will be speaking into the air.
1Co 14:10There are perhaps many kinds of voices in the world, and not one is without significance.
1Co 14:11If then I do not know the meaning of the voice, I will be to him who is speaking a barbarian, and he who is speaking a barbarian to me.
1Co 14:12So also you, since you are zealous of spirits, seek that you may excel for the building up of the church.
1Co 14:13Therefore let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
1Co 14:14For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
1Co 14:15What then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray also with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing also with the mind.
1Co 14:16Otherwise if you bless with the spirit, how shall he who fills the place of the unlearned in tongues say the Amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying?
1Co 14:17For you give thanks well, but the other is not built up.
1Co 14:18I thank God, I speak in tongues more than all of you,
1Co 14:19But in the church I would rather speak five words with my mind, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
1Co 14:20Brothers, do not be children in your understanding, but in malice be babes and in your understanding be full-grown.
1Co 14:21In the law it is written, “By those of other tongues and with the lips of others I will speak to this people; even so they will not listen to Me, says the Lord.”
1Co 14:22So then tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to the unbelievers; but prophecy is for a sign not to the unbelievers but to those who believe.
1Co 14:23If therefore the whole church comes together in one place, and all speak in tongues, and some unlearned in tongues or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are insane?
1Co 14:24But if all prophesy and some unbeliever or unlearned person enters, he is convicted by all, he is examined by all;
1Co 14:25The secrets of his heart become manifest; and so falling on his face, he will worship God, declaring that indeed God is among you.
1Co 14:26What then, brothers? Whenever you come together, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.
1Co 14:27If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two, or at the most three, and in turn, and one should interpret;
1Co 14:28But if there is no interpreter, he should be silent in the church, and speak to himself and to God.
1Co 14:29And as to prophets, two or three should speak, and the others discern.
1Co 14:30But if something is revealed to another sitting by, the first should be silent.
1Co 14:31For you can all prophesy one by one that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
1Co 14:32And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets;
1Co 14:33For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
1Co 14:34The women should be silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak; but they should be subject, even as the law also says.
1Co 14:35But if they desire to learn anything, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church.
1Co 14:36Or was it from you that the word of God went forth? Or did it reach only to you?
1Co 14:37If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him fully know the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord.
1Co 14:38But if anyone ignores this, let him ignore it.
1Co 14:39So then, my brothers, desire earnestly the prophesying, and do not forbid the speaking in tongues.
1Co 14:40But all things must be done becomingly and in order.
1Co 15:1Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel which I announced to you, which also you received, in which also you stand,
1Co 15:2Through which also you are being saved, if you hold fast the word which I announced to you as the gospel, unless you have believed in vain.
1Co 15:3For I delivered to you, first of all, that which also I received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures;
1Co 15:4And that He was buried, and that He has been raised on the third day according to the Scriptures;
1Co 15:5And that He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve;
1Co 15:6Then He appeared to over five hundred brothers at one time, of whom the majority remain until now, but some have fallen asleep;
1Co 15:7Then He appeared to James, then to all the apostles;
1Co 15:8And last of all He appeared to me also, as it were to one born prematurely.
1Co 15:9For I am the least of the apostles, who am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
1Co 15:10But by the grace of God I am what I am; and His grace unto me did not turn out to be in vain, but, on the contrary, I labored more abundantly than all of them, yet not I but the grace of God which is with me.
1Co 15:11Therefore whether it is I or they, so we preach and so you have believed.
1Co 15:12But if Christ is proclaimed that He has been raised from the dead, how is it that some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1Co 15:13But if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised.
1Co 15:14And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is vain; your faith is vain also.
1Co 15:15And also we are found to be false witnesses of God because we have testified concerning God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead are not raised.
1Co 15:16For if the dead are not raised, neither has Christ been raised.
1Co 15:17And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins.
1Co 15:18Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
1Co 15:19If it is only that we have hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most miserable.
1Co 15:20But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
1Co 15:21For since through man came death, through man also came the resurrection of the dead.
1Co 15:22For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
1Co 15:23But each one in his own order: the firstfruits, Christ; then those who are Christ’s at His coming;
1Co 15:24Then the end, when He delivers up the kingdom to His God and Father, once He has abolished all rule and all authority and power.
1Co 15:25For He must reign until God puts all His enemies under His feet.
1Co 15:26Death, the last enemy, is being abolished.
1Co 15:27For He has subjected all things under His feet. But when He says that all things are subjected, it is evident that all things are except Him who has subjected all things to Him.
1Co 15:28And when all things have been subjected to Him, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to Him who has subjected all things to Him, that God may be all in all.
1Co 15:29Otherwise what shall they who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are actually not raised, why then are they baptized for them?
1Co 15:30Why also do we brave danger every hour?
1Co 15:31I protest by the boasting in you, brothers, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
1Co 15:32If after the manner of men I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what does it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
1Co 15:33Do not be deceived: Evil companionships corrupt good morals.
1Co 15:34Awake from the drunken stupor righteously and do not sin, for some of you are ignorant of God. I speak to your shame.
1Co 15:35But someone will say, How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?
1Co 15:36Foolish man, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies;
1Co 15:37And what you sow, you do not sow the body that will be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of some other of the rest.
1Co 15:38But God gives it a body even as He willed, and to each of the seeds its own body.
1Co 15:39All flesh is not the same flesh, but one is of men, and another flesh is of cattle, and another is of birds, and another is of fish.
1Co 15:40There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies; but the glory of the heavenly is one thing, and that of the earthly is another.
1Co 15:41There is another glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
1Co 15:42So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption;
1Co 15:43It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
1Co 15:44It is sown a soulish body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a soulish body, there is also a spiritual one.
1Co 15:45So also it is written, “The first man, Adam, became a living soul”; the last Adam became a life-giving Spirit.
1Co 15:46But the spiritual is not first but the soulish, then the spiritual:
1Co 15:47The first man is out of the earth, earthy; the second man is out of heaven.
1Co 15:48As the earthy is, such are they also that are earthy; and as the heavenly is, such are they also that are heavenly.
1Co 15:49And even as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly.
1Co 15:50Now this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither does corruption inherit incorruption.
1Co 15:51Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed,
1Co 15:52In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed.
1Co 15:53For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.
1Co 15:54And when this corruptible will put on incorruption and this mortal will put on immortality, then the word which is written will come to pass, “Death has been swallowed up unto victory.”
1Co 15:55Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?
1Co 15:56The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1Co 15:57But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Co 15:58Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
1Co 16:1Now concerning the collection for the saints, just as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also do.
1Co 16:2On the first day of the week each one of you should lay aside in store to himself whatever he may have been prospered, that no collections be made when I come.
1Co 16:3And when I arrive, whomever you approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
1Co 16:4And if it is fitting for me also to go, they will go with me.
1Co 16:5Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I will pass through Macedonia.
1Co 16:6And perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me forward wherever I may go.
1Co 16:7For I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I am hoping to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
1Co 16:8But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost,
1Co 16:9For a door is opened to me, great and efficacious, and there are many opposers.
1Co 16:10Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; for he is working the work of the Lord, even as I am.
1Co 16:11Let no one therefore despise him, but send him forward in peace that he may come to me; for I am awaiting him with the brothers.
1Co 16:12And concerning our brother Apollos, I urged him many times to come to you with the brothers; yet it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity.
1Co 16:13Watch, stand firm in the faith, be full-grown men, be strong.
1Co 16:14Let all your matters be done in love.
1Co 16:15Now I exhort you, brothers: You know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and they have set themselves to minister to the saints;
1Co 16:16You also be subject to such ones, and to everyone co-working and laboring.
1Co 16:17Now I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these have filled up the lack caused by your absence;
1Co 16:18For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Acknowledge therefore such ones.
1Co 16:19The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you much in the Lord, with the church, which is in their house.
1Co 16:20All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
1Co 16:21The greeting in my own hand — Paul.
1Co 16:22If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed! The Lord comes!
1Co 16:23The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
1Co 16:24My love in Christ Jesus be with you all.
2Co 1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother, to the church of God which is in Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:
2Co 1:2Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2Co 1:3Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassions and God of all comfort,
2Co 1:4Who comforts us in all our affliction that we may be able to comfort those who are in every affliction through the comforting with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2Co 1:5For even as the sufferings of the Christ abound unto us, so through the Christ our comfort also abounds.
2Co 1:6But whether we are afflicted, it is for your comforting and salvation; or whether we are comforted, it is for your comforting, which operates in the endurance of the same sufferings which we also suffer.
2Co 1:7And our hope for you is firm, knowing that as you are partakers of the sufferings, so also you are of the comfort.
2Co 1:8For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of our affliction which befell us in Asia, that we were excessively burdened, beyond our power, so that we despaired even of living.
2Co 1:9Indeed we ourselves had the response of death in ourselves, that we should not base our confidence on ourselves but on God, who raises the dead;
2Co 1:10Who has delivered us out of so great a death, and will deliver us; in whom we have hoped that He will also yet deliver us,
2Co 1:11If you also help in this by petition on our behalf, that for the gift to us through many, thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf.
2Co 1:12For our boasting is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in singleness and sincerity of God, not in fleshly wisdom but in the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world, and more abundantly toward you.
2Co 1:13For no other things do we write to you than what you read or even know; and I hope that you will know unto the end,
2Co 1:14Even as also you know us in part, that we are your boast, just as you also are ours in the day of our Lord Jesus.
2Co 1:15And in this confidence I intended to come to you previously that you might have double grace,
2Co 1:16And through you to pass through into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you and be sent forward by you into Judea.
2Co 1:17This therefore intending, did I then use fickleness? Or the things which I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, so that with me there should be Yes, yes and No, no?
2Co 1:18But as God is faithful, our word toward you is not yes and no.
2Co 1:19For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, through me and Silvanus and Timothy, did not become yes and no, but our word has become yes in Him.
2Co 1:20For as many promises of God as there are, in Him is the Yes; therefore also through Him is the Amen to God, for glory through us to God.
2Co 1:21But the One who firmly attaches us with you unto Christ and has anointed us is God,
2Co 1:22He who has also sealed us and given the Spirit in our hearts as a pledge.
2Co 1:23But I call on God as a witness against my soul that to spare you I have not yet come to Corinth.
2Co 1:24Not that we lord it over your faith, but we are fellow workers with you for your joy; for by faith you stand.
2Co 2:1But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you in sorrow.
2Co 2:2For if I cause you sorrow, who then is the one who makes me glad, except the one who is made sorrowful by me?
2Co 2:3And I wrote this very thing to you that when I come I would not have sorrow from those who ought to make me rejoice, having confidence in you all that my joy is the joy of you all.
2Co 2:4For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you through many tears, not that you would be made sorrowful but that you would know the love which I have more abundantly toward you.
2Co 2:5But if anyone has caused sorrow, he has not caused me to sorrow, but in part (lest I lay too heavy a burden) all of you.
2Co 2:6Sufficient for such a one is this punishment by the majority,
2Co 2:7So that on the contrary you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one be swallowed up with excessive sorrow.
2Co 2:8Therefore I exhort you to confirm your love toward him.
2Co 2:9For to this end also I wrote, that I might know your approvedness, whether you are obedient in all things.
2Co 2:10But whom you forgive anything, I also forgive; for also what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it is for your sake in the person of Christ;
2Co 2:11That we may not be taken advantage of by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes.
2Co 2:12Furthermore, when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ and a door was open to me in the Lord,
2Co 2:13I had no rest in my spirit, for I did not find Titus my brother; but taking leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia.
2Co 2:14But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in the Christ and manifests the savor of the knowledge of Him through us in every place.
2Co 2:15For we are a fragrance of Christ to God in those who are being saved and in those who are perishing:
2Co 2:16To some a savor out of death unto death, and to the others a savor out of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
2Co 2:17For we are not like the many, adulterating the word of God for profit; but as out of sincerity, but as out of God, before God we speak in Christ.
2Co 3:1Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? Or do we need, as some do, letters of commendation to you or from you?
2Co 3:2You are our letter, inscribed in our hearts, known and read by all men,
2Co 3:3Since you are being manifested that you are a letter of Christ ministered by us, inscribed not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tablets of stone but in tablets of hearts of flesh.
2Co 3:4And such confidence we have through Christ toward God,
2Co 3:5Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God,
2Co 3:6Who has also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant, ministers not of the letter but of the Spirit; for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
2Co 3:7Moreover if the ministry of death, engraved in stone in letters, came about in glory, so that the sons of Israel were not able to gaze at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, a glory which was being done away with,
2Co 3:8How shall the ministry of the Spirit not be more in glory?
2Co 3:9For if there is glory with the ministry of condemnation, much more the ministry of righteousness abounds with glory.
2Co 3:10For also that which has been glorified in this respect has not been glorified on account of the surpassing glory.
2Co 3:11For if that which was being done away with was through glory, much more that which remains is in glory.
2Co 3:12Therefore since we have such hope, we use much boldness,
2Co 3:13And are not like Moses, who put a veil on his face so that the sons of Israel would not gaze at the end of that which was being done away with.
2Co 3:14But their thoughts were hardened; for until the present day the same veil remains at the reading of the old covenant, it not being unveiled to them that the veil is being done away with in Christ.
2Co 3:15Indeed unto this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart;
2Co 3:16But whenever their heart turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
2Co 3:17And the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
2Co 3:18But we all with unveiled face, beholding and reflecting like a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord Spirit.
2Co 4:1Therefore having this ministry as we have been shown mercy, we do not lose heart;
2Co 4:2But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness nor adulterating the word of God, but by the manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every conscience of men before God.
2Co 4:3And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled in those who are perishing,
2Co 4:4In whom the god of this age has blinded the thoughts of the unbelievers that the illumination of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, might not shine on them.
2Co 4:5For we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your slaves for Jesus’ sake.
2Co 4:6Because the God who said, Out of darkness light shall shine, is the One who shined in our hearts to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2Co 4:7But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not out of us.
2Co 4:8We are pressed on every side but not constricted; unable to find a way out but not utterly without a way out;
2Co 4:9Persecuted but not abandoned; cast down but not destroyed;
2Co 4:10Always bearing about in the body the putting to death of Jesus that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body.
2Co 4:11For we who are alive are always being delivered unto death for Jesus’ sake that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2Co 4:12So then death operates in us, but life in you.
2Co 4:13And having the same spirit of faith according to that which is written, “I believed, therefore I spoke,” we also believe, therefore we also speak,
2Co 4:14Knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and will make us stand before Him with you.
2Co 4:15For all things are for your sakes that the grace which has abounded through the greater number may cause the thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God.
2Co 4:16Therefore we do not lose heart; but though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day.
2Co 4:17For our momentary lightness of affliction works out for us, more and more surpassingly, an eternal weight of glory,
2Co 4:18Because we do not regard the things which are seen but the things which are not seen; for the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal.
2Co 5:1For we know that if our earthly tabernacle dwelling is taken down, we have a building from God, a dwelling not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens.
2Co 5:2For also in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our dwelling place from heaven,
2Co 5:3If indeed, being clothed, we will not be found naked.
2Co 5:4For also, we who are in this tabernacle groan, being burdened, in that we do not desire to be unclothed, but clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
2Co 5:5Now He who has wrought us for this very thing is God, who has given to us the Spirit as a pledge.
2Co 5:6Therefore being always of good courage and knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are abroad from the Lord
2Co 5:7(For we walk by faith, not by appearance) —
2Co 5:8We are of good courage then and are well pleased rather to be abroad from the body and at home with the Lord.
2Co 5:9Therefore also we are determined, whether at home or abroad, to gain the honor of being well pleasing to Him.
2Co 5:10For we must all be manifested before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done through the body according to what he has practiced, whether good or bad.
2Co 5:11Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest to God; yet I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences.
2Co 5:12We are not again commending ourselves to you, but so speak in order to give you an opportunity to boast on our behalf, that you may have an answer for those who are boasting in outward appearance and not in heart.
2Co 5:13For whether we were beside ourselves, it was to God; or whether we are sober-minded, it is for you.
2Co 5:14For the love of Christ constrains us because we have judged this, that One died for all, therefore all died;
2Co 5:15And He died for all that those who live may no longer live to themselves but to Him who died for them and has been raised.
2Co 5:16So then we, from now on, know no one according to the flesh; even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know Him so no longer.
2Co 5:17So then if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away; behold, they have become new.
2Co 5:18But all things are out from God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
2Co 5:19Namely, that God in Christ was reconciling the world to Himself, not accounting their offenses to them, and has put in us the word of reconciliation.
2Co 5:20On behalf of Christ then we are ambassadors, as God entreats you through us; we beseech you on behalf of Christ, Be reconciled to God.
2Co 5:21Him who did not know sin He made sin on our behalf that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.
2Co 6:1And working together with Him, we also entreat you not to receive the grace of God in vain;
2Co 6:2For He says, “In an acceptable time I listened to you, and in the day of salvation I helped you.” Behold, now is the well-acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
2Co 6:3We give no occasion of stumbling in anything that the ministry may not be faulted,
2Co 6:4But in everything we commend ourselves as ministers of God, in much endurance, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
2Co 6:5In stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings;
2Co 6:6In pureness, in knowledge, in long-suffering, in kindness, in a holy spirit, in unfeigned love,
2Co 6:7In the word of truth, in the power of God; through the weapons of righteousness on the right and on the left,
2Co 6:8Through glory and dishonor, through evil report and good report; as deceivers and yet true;
2Co 6:9As unknown and yet well known; as dying and yet behold we live; as being disciplined and yet not being put to death;
2Co 6:10As made sorrowful yet always rejoicing; as poor yet enriching many; as having nothing and yet possessing all things.
2Co 6:11Our mouth is opened to you, Corinthians; our heart is enlarged.
2Co 6:12You are not constricted in us, but you are constricted in your inward parts.
2Co 6:13But for a recompense in kind, I speak as to children, you also be enlarged.
2Co 6:14Do not become dissimilarly yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership do righteousness and lawlessness have? Or what fellowship does light have with darkness?
2Co 6:15And what concord does Christ have with Belial? Or what part does a believer have with an unbeliever?
2Co 6:16And what agreement does the temple of God have with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, even as God said, “I will dwell among them and walk among them; and I will be their God, and they will be My people.”
2Co 6:17Therefore “come out from their midst and be separated, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean; and I will welcome you”;
2Co 6:18“And I will be a Father to you, and you will be sons and daughters to Me, says the Lord Almighty.”
2Co 7:1Therefore since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and of spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
2Co 7:2Make room for us; we have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one.
2Co 7:3I do not say this to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts for our dying together and our living together.
2Co 7:4Great is my boldness toward you, great is my boasting on your behalf; I am filled with comfort, I overflow with joy in all our affliction.
2Co 7:5For even when we came into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted in everything; without were fightings, within were fears.
2Co 7:6But He who comforts those who are downcast, that is, God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
2Co 7:7And not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted because of you, declaring to us your longing, your lamentation, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced the more.
2Co 7:8For though I caused you sorrow by the letter, I do not regret it. Even if I did regret it (for I see that that letter, even if for an hour, caused you sorrow),
2Co 7:9Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to repentance; for you were made sorrowful according to God, that in nothing you might suffer loss from us.
2Co 7:10For sorrow according to God works repentance unto salvation, which is without regret; but the sorrow of the world works out death.
2Co 7:11For behold this very thing, your being made sorrowful according to God, what earnestness it has worked out in you, indeed what defense, indeed what indignation, indeed what fear, indeed what longing, indeed what zeal, indeed what punishment! In everything you have commended yourselves to be pure in the matter.
2Co 7:12So then, though I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of him who did the wrong, nor for the sake of him who was wronged, but for the sake of manifesting to you before God your earnestness for us.
2Co 7:13Because of this we have been comforted. And in addition to our comfort, we rejoiced more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of you.
2Co 7:14For if in anything I boasted to him on your behalf, I have not been put to shame; on the contrary, as we spoke all things in truth to you, so also our boasting before Titus turned out to be the truth.
2Co 7:15And his affections are abundantly toward you, he remembering the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling.
2Co 7:16I rejoice that in everything I have boldness because of you.
2Co 8:1Furthermore we make known to you, brothers, the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia,
2Co 8:2That in much proving of affliction the abundance of their joy and the depth of their poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality;
2Co 8:3That according to their power, I testify, and beyond their power, of their own accord,
2Co 8:4With much entreaty they besought of us the grace and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints;
2Co 8:5And this, not as we had hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and to us through the will of God.
2Co 8:6So we entreated Titus that, even as he began before, so also he would complete for you this grace as well.
2Co 8:7But just as you abound in everything, in faith and in word and in knowledge and in all earnestness and in the love in you from us, abound in this grace also.
2Co 8:8I am not speaking by way of command, but through the earnestness of others, proving also the genuineness of your love.
2Co 8:9For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, for your sakes He became poor in order that you, because of His poverty, might become rich.
2Co 8:10And I give my opinion in this matter, for this is profitable for you who were the first to begin a year ago not only to do this but even to intend to do this.
2Co 8:11But now complete also the doing, so that as there was the eagerness in intending, so also there would be the completing out of what you have.
2Co 8:12For if the eagerness is there, it is acceptable according to whatever one has, not according to what he does not have.
2Co 8:13For it is not that to others there would be relief, yet to you affliction,
2Co 8:14But it is out of equality; at the present time your abundance for their lack that their abundance also may be for your lack, so that there may be equality;
2Co 8:15As it is written, “He who gathered much had no excess, and he who gathered little had no lack.”
2Co 8:16But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus,
2Co 8:17Because he not only received the entreaty, but being more earnest, he also went forth of his own accord to you.
2Co 8:18And we sent together with him the brother whose praise in the gospel is throughout all the churches,
2Co 8:19And not only this, but who has also been selected by the churches as our fellow traveler in this grace which is being ministered by us, to the glory of the Lord Himself and to demonstrate our eagerness;
2Co 8:20Avoiding this, that anyone should find fault with us in this abundance which is being ministered by us.
2Co 8:21For we exercise foresight for what is honorable not only in the sight of the Lord but also in the sight of men.
2Co 8:22And we sent with them our brother, whom we have proved to be diligent in many things many times, yet now much more diligent because of the great confidence he has toward you.
2Co 8:23Whether concerning Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for you; or our brothers, they are apostles of the churches, they are Christ’s glory.
2Co 8:24Show therefore to them, in the face of the churches, the proof of your love and of our boasting on your behalf.
2Co 9:1For concerning the ministry to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you;
2Co 9:2For I know your eagerness, of which I boast on your behalf to the Macedonians, that Achaia has been prepared since last year; and your zeal has stirred up the greater number of them.
2Co 9:3But I sent the brothers that our boasting on your behalf might not be made void in this respect, that, as I said, you might be prepared;
2Co 9:4Lest, if the Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to mention you, be put to shame in this confidence.
2Co 9:5Therefore I thought it necessary to entreat the brothers to go before to you and make ready beforehand your previously promised blessing, that thus this might be ready as a blessing and not as a matter of covetousness.
2Co 9:6But take note of this: He who sows sparingly shall also sparingly reap; and he who sows with blessings shall also with blessings reap;
2Co 9:7Each one as he has purposed in his heart, not out of sorrow or out of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver.
2Co 9:8And God is able to make all grace abound unto you, that, in everything always having all sufficiency, you may abound unto every good work;
2Co 9:9Even as it is written, “He has scattered abroad; he has given to the poor; his righteousness abides forever.”
2Co 9:10Now He who bountifully supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed and cause the fruits of your righteousness to increase.
2Co 9:11You in everything are being enriched unto all liberality, which works out through us thanksgiving to God,
2Co 9:12Because the ministry of this service is not only filling up the lack of the saints, but is also abounding through many thanksgivings to God.
2Co 9:13They, through the approving of this ministry, are glorifying God based upon the subjection unto the gospel of Christ that issues from your confession, and upon the liberality of the fellowship to them and to all;
2Co 9:14While in petition on your behalf they also long after you on account of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
2Co 9:15Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift!
2Co 10:1But I myself, Paul, entreat you through the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who (as you say) in person am base among you, but while absent am bold toward you,
2Co 10:2I beseech you that when present I would not have to be bold in the confidence with which I count myself, to dare do to some who count us as ones who are walking according to flesh.
2Co 10:3For though we walk in flesh, we do not war according to flesh;
2Co 10:4For the weapons of our warfare are not fleshly but powerful before God for the overthrowing of strongholds,
2Co 10:5As we overthrow reasonings and every high thing rising up against the knowledge of God, and take captive every thought unto the obedience of Christ.
2Co 10:6And we are ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled.
2Co 10:7You look at things according to their appearance. If someone has confidence in himself to be of Christ, let him take account of this again concerning himself, that even as he is of Christ, so also are we.
2Co 10:8For even if I should boast somewhat more abundantly concerning our authority, which the Lord has given for building you up and not for overthrowing you, I will not be put to shame.
2Co 10:9I say this so as not to seem as if I am terrifying you through my letters,
2Co 10:10Because while his letters, someone says, are weighty and strong, his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible.
2Co 10:11Let such a one take account of this, that such as we are in word by letters when absent, such also we are in deed when present.
2Co 10:12For we do not dare to class or compare ourselves with any of those who commend themselves; but they, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves with themselves, are without understanding.
2Co 10:13But we will not boast beyond our measure but according to the measure of the rule which the God of measure has apportioned to us, to reach even as far as you.
2Co 10:14For we are not extending ourselves beyond our bounds, as if we did not reach you, for we were the first to come even as far as unto you in the gospel of Christ.
2Co 10:15We are not boasting beyond our measure in others’ labors, but have the hope, as your faith is increasing, to be magnified in you according to our rule unto abundance,
2Co 10:16So that we may announce the gospel unto those parts beyond you, not so that we may boast in another man’s rule in things already prepared.
2Co 10:17But he who boasts, let him boast in the Lord;
2Co 10:18For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.
2Co 11:1I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness; but indeed you do bear with me.
2Co 11:2For I am jealous over you with a jealousy of God; for I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
2Co 11:3But I fear lest somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your thoughts would be corrupted from the simplicity and the purity toward Christ.
2Co 11:4For if indeed he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you bear well with him.
2Co 11:5But I count myself to be inferior to the super-apostles in nothing.
2Co 11:6But even if I am a layman in speech, yet I am not in knowledge; indeed in every way we have made this manifest in all things to you.
2Co 11:7Or did I commit a sin, abasing myself that you might be exalted, because I announced the gospel of God to you free of charge?
2Co 11:8I robbed other churches, taking wages for the ministry to you.
2Co 11:9And when I was present with you and lacked, I was not a burden to anyone; for the brothers who came from Macedonia filled up my lack, and in everything I kept myself from being burdensome to you, and will keep myself.
2Co 11:10The truthfulness of Christ is in me, that this boasting shall not be stopped as it regards me in the regions of Achaia.
2Co 11:11Why? Because I do not love you? God knows.
2Co 11:12But what I do, I also will do, that I may cut off the opportunity of those desiring an opportunity, that in the thing in which they boast, they may be found even as we.
2Co 11:13For such ones are false apostles, deceitful workers, transfiguring themselves into apostles of Christ.
2Co 11:14And no wonder, for Satan himself transfigures himself into an angel of light.
2Co 11:15Therefore it is no great thing if also his ministers transfigure themselves into ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works.
2Co 11:16Again I say, Let no one think me to be foolish; but if otherwise, accept me even as if I were foolish, that I also may boast a little.
2Co 11:17What I speak, I speak not according to the Lord but as if in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting.
2Co 11:18Since many boast according to the flesh, I also will boast.
2Co 11:19For you bear gladly with fools because you yourselves are wise.
2Co 11:20For you bear it if anyone enslaves you, if anyone devours you, if anyone takes you, if anyone lifts himself up, if anyone beats you in the face.
2Co 11:21By way of self-disparagement I say this, Supposedly we ourselves were weak. But in whatever anyone else is daring, I speak in foolishness, I also am daring.
2Co 11:22Hebrews are they? I also. Israelites are they? I also. The seed of Abraham are they? I also.
2Co 11:23Ministers of Christ are they? I speak as being beside myself, I more so! In labors more abundantly, in imprisonments more abundantly, in stripes excessively, in deaths often.
2Co 11:24Under the hands of the Jews five times I received forty stripes less one;
2Co 11:25Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have spent in the deep;
2Co 11:26In journeys often, in dangers of rivers, in dangers of robbers, in dangers from my race, in dangers from the Gentiles, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the wilderness, in dangers in the sea, in dangers among false brothers;
2Co 11:27In labor and hardship; in watchings often; in hunger and thirst; in fastings often; in cold and nakedness — 
2Co 11:28Apart from the things which have not been mentioned, there is this: the crowd of cares pressing upon me daily, the anxious concern for all the churches.
2Co 11:29Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I myself do not burn?
2Co 11:30If I must boast, I will boast of the things of my weakness.
2Co 11:31The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
2Co 11:32In Damascus, the governor under Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me;
2Co 11:33And in a basket I was lowered through a window, through the wall, and escaped his hands.
2Co 12:1To boast is necessary, though indeed not expedient; yet I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
2Co 12:2I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body I do not know, or outside the body I do not know; God knows) such a one was caught away to the third heaven.
2Co 12:3And I know such a man (whether in the body or outside the body, I do not know; God knows),
2Co 12:4That he was caught away into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not allowed for a man to speak.
2Co 12:5On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on behalf of myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.
2Co 12:6For if I desire to boast, I will not be foolish, for I will speak the truth; but I refrain lest anyone account of me something above what he sees me to be or hears from me.
2Co 12:7And because of the transcendence of the revelations, in order that I might not be exceedingly lifted up, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, that he might buffet me, in order that I might not be exceedingly lifted up.
2Co 12:8Concerning this I entreated the Lord three times that it might depart from me.
2Co 12:9And He has said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly therefore I will rather boast in my weaknesses that the power of Christ might tabernacle over me.
2Co 12:10Therefore I am well pleased in weaknesses, in insults, in necessities, in persecutions and distresses, on behalf of Christ; for when I am weak, then I am powerful.
2Co 12:11I have become foolish; you yourselves have compelled me. For it is I who should have been commended by you; for in nothing am I inferior to the super-apostles, even though I am nothing.
2Co 12:12Indeed the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all endurance by signs and wonders and works of power.
2Co 12:13For what is there in which you were treated in a manner inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Graciously forgive me this injustice!
2Co 12:14Behold, this third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden; for I do not seek what is yours but you. For the children ought not to store up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
2Co 12:15But I, I will most gladly spend and be utterly spent on behalf of your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved less?
2Co 12:16But let it be so! I did not burden you; but, as some of you say, being crafty, I took you by guile.
2Co 12:17Did I take advantage of you through anyone whom I have sent to you?
2Co 12:18I entreated Titus and sent with him the brother. Titus did not take advantage of you, did he? Did we not walk in the same spirit? In the same steps?
2Co 12:19All this time you have been thinking that we are defending ourselves to you. Before God in Christ we speak; but all things, beloved, are for your building up.
2Co 12:20For I fear that perhaps when I come, I may find you not such as I wish, and I may be found by you not such as you wish; that perhaps there may be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambitions, slanders, whisperings, demonstrations of being puffed up, tumults;
2Co 12:21That when I come again my God may humble me before you and I may mourn over many who have sinned before and who have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and licentiousness which they have practiced.
2Co 13:1This third time I am coming to you; at the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.
2Co 13:2I have previously said and I say beforehand, when I was present the second time and being absent now, to those who have sinned before and to all the rest, that if I come again, I will not spare,
2Co 13:3Since you seek a proof of the Christ who is speaking in me, who is not weak unto you but is powerful in you.
2Co 13:4For indeed He was crucified out of weakness, but He lives by the power of God. For indeed we are weak in Him, but we will live together with Him by the power of God directed toward you.
2Co 13:5Test yourselves whether you are in the faith; prove yourselves. Or do you not realize about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless you are disapproved?
2Co 13:6But I hope that you will know that we are not disapproved.
2Co 13:7Now we pray to God that you do nothing wrong, not that we may appear approved, but that you yourselves may do what is good and we may be as if disapproved.
2Co 13:8For we are not able to do anything against the truth but rather for the truth.
2Co 13:9For we rejoice whenever we are weak and you are powerful; this also we pray for, your perfecting.
2Co 13:10Therefore I write these things while being absent in order that when present I would not have to use severity, according to the authority which the Lord has given me for building up and not for overthrowing.
2Co 13:11Finally, brothers, rejoice, be perfected, be comforted, think the same thing, be at peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
2Co 13:12Greet one another with a holy kiss.
2Co 13:13All the saints greet you.
2Co 13:14The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Ga 1:1Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
Ga 1:2And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Ga 1:3Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
Ga 1:4Who gave Himself for our sins that He might rescue us out of the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
Ga 1:5To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Ga 1:6I marvel that you are so quickly removing from Him who has called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
Ga 1:7Which is not another gospel, only there are some who trouble you and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
Ga 1:8But if even we or an angel out of heaven should announce to you a gospel beyond that which we have announced to you, let him be accursed.
Ga 1:9As we have said before, now also I say again, If anyone announces to you a gospel beyond that which you have received, let him be accursed.
Ga 1:10For am I now trying to win the assent of men or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
Ga 1:11For I make known to you, brothers, concerning the gospel announced by me, that it is not according to man.
Ga 1:12For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
Ga 1:13For you have heard of my manner of life formerly in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God excessively and ravaged it.
Ga 1:14And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being more abundantly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
Ga 1:15But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother’s womb and called me through His grace,
Ga 1:16To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
Ga 1:17Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia and again returned to Damascus.
Ga 1:18Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I remained with him fifteen days.
Ga 1:19But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord.
Ga 1:20Now concerning the things which I am writing to you, behold, before God, I am not lying.
Ga 1:21Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
Ga 1:22Yet I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which are in Christ.
Ga 1:23But they only heard this: He who was formerly persecuting us is now announcing as the gospel the faith which formerly he ravaged.
Ga 1:24And they glorified God because of me.
Ga 2:1Then after a period of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus with me also.
Ga 2:2And I went up according to revelation, and I laid before them the gospel which I proclaim among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of repute, lest perhaps I should be running, or had run, in vain.
Ga 2:3But not even Titus, who was with me, though he is a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised;
Ga 2:4And this, because of the false brothers, brought in secretly, who stole in to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into slavery.
Ga 2:5To them we yielded with the subjection demanded not even for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
Ga 2:6But from those who were reputed to be something — whatever they were makes no difference to me; God does not accept man’s person; for to me those who were of repute added nothing.
Ga 2:7But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcision, even as Peter with the gospel to the circumcision,
Ga 2:8(For He who operated in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcision operated also in me for the Gentiles),
Ga 2:9And perceiving the grace given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and to Barnabas the right hand of fellowship that we should go to the Gentiles, and they, to the circumcision.
Ga 2:10Only they requested that we remember the poor, which very thing I was also eager to do.
Ga 2:11But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned.
Ga 2:12For before some came from James, he continually ate with the Gentiles; but when they came, he began to shrink back and separate himself, fearing those of the circumcision.
Ga 2:13And the rest of the Jews also joined him in this hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was carried away in their hypocrisy.
Ga 2:14But when I saw that they were not walking in a straightforward way in relation to the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews?
Ga 2:15We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles;
Ga 2:16And knowing that a man is not justified out of works of law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, we also have believed into Christ Jesus that we might be justified out of faith in Christ and not out of the works of law, because out of the works of law no flesh will be justified.
Ga 2:17But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also have been found sinners, is then Christ a minister of sin? Absolutely not!
Ga 2:18For if I build again the things which I have destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
Ga 2:19For I through law have died to law that I might live to God.
Ga 2:20I am crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Ga 2:21I do not nullify the grace of God; for if righteousness is through law, then Christ has died for nothing.
Ga 3:1O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly portrayed crucified?
Ga 3:2This only I wish to learn from you, Did you receive the Spirit out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
Ga 3:3Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?
Ga 3:4Have you suffered so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain?
Ga 3:5He therefore who bountifully supplies to you the Spirit and does works of power among you, does He do it out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
Ga 3:6Even as “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness.”
Ga 3:7Know then that they who are of faith, these are sons of Abraham.
Ga 3:8And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles out of faith, announced the gospel beforehand to Abraham: “In you shall all the nations be blessed.”
Ga 3:9So then they who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham.
Ga 3:10For as many as are of the works of law are under a curse; for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things written in the book of the law to do them.”
Ga 3:11And that by law no one is justified before God is evident because, “The righteous one shall have life and live by faith”;
Ga 3:12But the law is not of faith, yet, “He who does them shall live because of them.”
Ga 3:13Christ has redeemed us out of the curse of the law, having become a curse on our behalf; because it is written, “Cursed is everyone hanging on a tree”;
Ga 3:14In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Ga 3:15Brothers, I speak according to man, though it is a man’s covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one nullifies it or makes additions to it.
Ga 3:16But to Abraham were the promises spoken and to his seed. He does not say, And to the seeds, as concerning many, but as concerning one: “And to your seed,” who is Christ.
Ga 3:17And I say this: A covenant previously ratified by God, the law, having come four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul so as to make the promise of none effect.
Ga 3:18For if the inheritance is of law, it is no longer of promise; but to Abraham God has graciously given it through promise.
Ga 3:19Why then the law? It was added because of the transgressions until the seed should come to whom the promise was made, it being ordained through angels in the hand of a mediator.
Ga 3:20But a mediator is not a mediator for one, but God is one.
Ga 3:21Is then the law against the promises of God? Absolutely not! For if a law had been given which was able to give life, righteousness would have indeed been of law.
Ga 3:22But the Scripture has shut up all under sin in order that the promise out of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
Ga 3:23But before faith came we were guarded under law, being shut up unto the faith which was to be revealed.
Ga 3:24So then the law has become our child-conductor unto Christ that we might be justified out of faith.
Ga 3:25But since faith has come, we are no longer under a child-conductor.
Ga 3:26For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
Ga 3:27For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
Ga 3:28There cannot be Jew nor Greek, there cannot be slave nor free man, there cannot be male and female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Ga 3:29And if you are of Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, heirs according to promise.
Ga 4:1But I say, As long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, though he is lord of all;
Ga 4:2But he is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father.
Ga 4:3So also we, when we were children, were kept in slavery under the elements of the world;
Ga 4:4But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under law,
Ga 4:5That He might redeem those under law that we might receive the sonship.
Ga 4:6And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father!
Ga 4:7So then you are no longer a slave but a son; and if a son, an heir also through God.
Ga 4:8However at that time, not knowing God, you were slaves to the gods which by nature are not gods;
Ga 4:9But now, having come to know God, or rather having been known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak and poor elements, to which you desire to be enslaved yet again?
Ga 4:10You observe days and months and seasons and years;
Ga 4:11I fear for you, lest I have labored upon you in vain.
Ga 4:12Become as I am, because I also am as you are, brothers, I beseech you; you have not wronged me at all.
Ga 4:13And you know that because of weakness of my flesh I announced the gospel to you the first time.
Ga 4:14And that which was a trial to you in my flesh you did not despise nor loathe, but you received me as an angel of God, indeed as Christ Jesus.
Ga 4:15Where then is your felicitation? For I testify concerning you that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
Ga 4:16So then have I become your enemy by presenting the truth to you?
Ga 4:17They are zealous of you, but not rightly; but they desire to shut you out that you may be zealous of them.
Ga 4:18But it is always good to be zealous in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
Ga 4:19My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,
Ga 4:20Indeed, I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone because I am perplexed about you.
Ga 4:21Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
Ga 4:22For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one of the maidservant and one of the free woman.
Ga 4:23However the one of the maidservant was born according to the flesh, but the one of the free woman was born through promise.
Ga 4:24These things are spoken allegorically, for these women are two covenants, one from Mount Sinai, bringing forth children unto slavery, which is Hagar.
Ga 4:25Now this Hagar is Sinai the mountain in Arabia and corresponds to the Jerusalem which now is, for she is in slavery with her children.
Ga 4:26But the Jerusalem above is free, which is our mother;
Ga 4:27For it is written, “Rejoice, barren one who does not bear; break forth and shout, you who are not travailing, because many are the children of her who is desolate rather than of her who has her husband.”
Ga 4:28But you, brothers, in the way Isaac was, are children of promise.
Ga 4:29But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
Ga 4:30But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the maidservant and her son, for the son of the maidservant shall by no means inherit with the son of the free woman.”
Ga 4:31So then, brothers, we are not children of the maidservant but of the free woman.
Ga 5:1It is for freedom that Christ has set us free; stand fast therefore, and do not be entangled with a yoke of slavery again.
Ga 5:2Behold, I Paul say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
Ga 5:3And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
Ga 5:4You have been brought to nought, separated from Christ, you who are being justified by law; you have fallen from grace.
Ga 5:5For we by the Spirit out of faith eagerly await the hope of righteousness.
Ga 5:6For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails anything nor uncircumcision, but faith avails, operating through love.
Ga 5:7You were running well. Who hindered you that you would not believe and obey the truth?
Ga 5:8This persuasion is not of Him who calls you.
Ga 5:9A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
Ga 5:10I am confident in the Lord concerning you that you will be of no other mind; but he who is troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.
Ga 5:11But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been annulled.
Ga 5:12I wish that those upsetting you would even cut themselves off.
Ga 5:13For you were called for freedom, brothers; only do not turn this freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.
Ga 5:14For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Ga 5:15But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another.
Ga 5:16But I say, Walk by the Spirit and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh.
Ga 5:17For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these oppose each other that you would not do the things that you desire.
Ga 5:18But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Ga 5:19And the works of the flesh are manifest, which are such things as fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
Ga 5:20Idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, divisions, sects,
Ga 5:21Envyings, bouts of drunkenness, carousings, and things like these, of which I tell you beforehand, even as I have said before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Ga 5:22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
Ga 5:23Meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
Ga 5:24But they who are of Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and its lusts.
Ga 5:25If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Ga 5:26Let us not become vainglorious, provoking one another, envying one another.
Ga 6:1Brothers, even if a man is overtaken in some offense, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, looking to yourself lest you also be tempted.
Ga 6:2Bear one another’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ completely.
Ga 6:3For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
Ga 6:4But let each man prove his own work, and then he will have his boast in regard to himself alone and not in regard to another.
Ga 6:5For each one shall bear his own load.
Ga 6:6But let him who is instructed in the word share in all good things with him who instructs.
Ga 6:7Do not be deceived: God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap.
Ga 6:8For he who sows unto his own flesh will reap corruption of the flesh, but he who sows unto the Spirit will of the Spirit reap eternal life.
Ga 6:9And let us not lose heart in doing what is good, for in the proper season we will reap if we do not faint.
Ga 6:10So then, as we have the opportunity, let us do what is good toward all, but especially toward those of the household of the faith.
Ga 6:11See with what large letters I have written to you with my own hand.
Ga 6:12As many as desire to make a good show in the flesh, these compel you to be circumcised, but only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
Ga 6:13For neither do they that become circumcised keep the law themselves, but they desire you to be circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
Ga 6:14But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world.
Ga 6:15For neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation is what matters.
Ga 6:16And as many as walk by this rule, peace be upon them and mercy, even upon the Israel of God.
Ga 6:17Henceforth let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the brands of Jesus.
Ga 6:18The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.
Ep 1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus:
Ep 1:2Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ep 1:3Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ,
Ep 1:4Even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world to be holy and without blemish before Him in love,
Ep 1:5Predestinating us unto sonship through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will,
Ep 1:6To the praise of the glory of His grace, with which He graced us in the Beloved;
Ep 1:7In whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of offenses, according to the riches of His grace,
Ep 1:8Which He caused to abound to us in all wisdom and prudence,
Ep 1:9Making known to us the mystery of His will according to His good pleasure, which He purposed in Himself,
Ep 1:10Unto the economy of the fullness of the times, to head up all things in Christ, the things in the heavens and the things on the earth, in Him;
Ep 1:11In whom also we were designated as an inheritance, having been predestinated according to the purpose of the One who works all things according to the counsel of His will,
Ep 1:12That we would be to the praise of His glory who have first hoped in Christ,
Ep 1:13In whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, in Him also believing, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the promise,
Ep 1:14Who is the pledge of our inheritance unto the redemption of the acquired possession, to the praise of His glory.
Ep 1:15Therefore I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you and your love to all the saints,
Ep 1:16Do not cease giving thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
Ep 1:17That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
Ep 1:18The eyes of your heart having been enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling, and what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints,
Ep 1:19And what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the operation of the might of His strength,
Ep 1:20Which He caused to operate in Christ in raising Him from the dead and seating Him at His right hand in the heavenlies,
Ep 1:21Far above all rule and authority and power and lordship and every name that is named not only in this age but also in that which is to come;
Ep 1:22And He subjected all things under His feet and gave Him to be Head over all things to the church,
Ep 1:23Which is His Body, the fullness of the One who fills all in all.
Ep 2:1And you, though dead in your offenses and sins,
Ep 2:2In which you once walked according to the age of this world, according to the ruler of the authority of the air, of the spirit which is now operating in the sons of disobedience;
Ep 2:3Among whom we also all conducted ourselves once in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the thoughts, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest;
Ep 2:4But God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us,
Ep 2:5Even when we were dead in offenses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved)
Ep 2:6And raised us up together with Him and seated us together with Him in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus,
Ep 2:7That He might display in the ages to come the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
Ep 2:8For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves; it is the gift of God;
Ep 2:9Not of works that no one should boast.
Ep 2:10For we are His masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand in order that we would walk in them.
Ep 2:11Therefore remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, those who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh made by hands,
Ep 2:12That you were at that time apart from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
Ep 2:13But now in Christ Jesus you who were once far off have become near in the blood of Christ.
Ep 2:14For He Himself is our peace, He who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of partition, the enmity,
Ep 2:15Abolishing in His flesh the law of the commandments in ordinances, that He might create the two in Himself into one new man, so making peace,
Ep 2:16And might reconcile both in one Body to God through the cross, having slain the enmity by it.
Ep 2:17And coming, He announced peace as the gospel to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near,
Ep 2:18For through Him we both have access in one Spirit unto the Father.
Ep 2:19So then you are no longer strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,
Ep 2:20Being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone;
Ep 2:21In whom all the building, being fitted together, is growing into a holy temple in the Lord;
Ep 2:22In whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God in spirit.
Ep 3:1For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you, the Gentiles — 
Ep 3:2If indeed you have heard of the stewardship of the grace of God which was given to me for you,
Ep 3:3That by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I have written previously in brief,
Ep 3:4By which, in reading it, you can perceive my understanding in the mystery of Christ,
Ep 3:5Which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to His holy apostles and prophets in spirit,
Ep 3:6That in Christ Jesus the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the Body and fellow partakers of the promise through the gospel,
Ep 3:7Of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God which was given to me according to the operation of His power.
Ep 3:8To me, less than the least of all saints, was this grace given to announce to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ as the gospel
Ep 3:9And to enlighten all that they may see what the economy of the mystery is, which throughout the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things,
Ep 3:10In order that now to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenlies the multifarious wisdom of God might be made known through the church,
Ep 3:11According to the eternal purpose which He made in Christ Jesus our Lord,
Ep 3:12In whom we have boldness and access in confidence through faith in Him.
Ep 3:13Therefore I ask you not to faint at my afflictions for your sake, since they are your glory.
Ep 3:14For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father,
Ep 3:15Of whom every family in the heavens and on earth is named,
Ep 3:16That He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with power through His Spirit into the inner man,
Ep 3:17That Christ may make His home in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
Ep 3:18May be full of strength to apprehend with all the saints what the breadth and length and height and depth are
Ep 3:19And to know the knowledge-surpassing love of Christ, that you may be filled unto all the fullness of God.
Ep 3:20But to Him who is able to do superabundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power which operates in us,
Ep 3:21To Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus unto all the generations forever and ever. Amen.
Ep 4:1I beseech you therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called,
Ep 4:2With all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing one another in love,
Ep 4:3Being diligent to keep the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace:
Ep 4:4One Body and one Spirit, even as also you were called in one hope of your calling;
Ep 4:5One Lord, one faith, one baptism;
Ep 4:6One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.
Ep 4:7But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
Ep 4:8Therefore the Scripture says, “Having ascended to the height, He led captive those taken captive and gave gifts to men.”
Ep 4:9(Now this, “He ascended,” what is it except that He also descended into the lower parts of the earth?
Ep 4:10He who descended, He is also the One who ascended far above all the heavens that He might fill all things.)
Ep 4:11And He Himself gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as shepherds and teachers,
Ep 4:12For the perfecting of the saints unto the work of the ministry, unto the building up of the Body of Christ,
Ep 4:13Until we all arrive at the oneness of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, at a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
Ep 4:14That we may be no longer little children tossed by waves and carried about by every wind of teaching in the sleight of men, in craftiness with a view to a system of error,
Ep 4:15But holding to truth in love, we may grow up into Him in all things, who is the Head, Christ,
Ep 4:16Out from whom all the Body, being joined together and being knit together through every joint of the rich supply and through the operation in the measure of each one part, causes the growth of the Body unto the building up of itself in love.
Ep 4:17This therefore I say and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk as the Gentiles also walk in the vanity of their mind,
Ep 4:18Being darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance which is in them, because of the hardness of their heart;
Ep 4:19Who, being past feeling, have given themselves over to lasciviousness to work all uncleanness in greediness.
Ep 4:20But you did not so learn Christ,
Ep 4:21If indeed you have heard Him and have been taught in Him as the reality is in Jesus,
Ep 4:22That you put off, as regards your former manner of life, the old man, which is being corrupted according to the lusts of the deceit,
Ep 4:23And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind
Ep 4:24And put on the new man, which was created according to God in righteousness and holiness of the reality.
Ep 4:25Therefore having put off the lie, speak truth each one with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.
Ep 4:26Be angry, yet do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your indignation,
Ep 4:27Neither give place to the devil.
Ep 4:28He who steals should steal no more, but rather should labor, working with his own hands in that which is respectable, that he may have something to share with him who has need.
Ep 4:29Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but only that which is good for building up, according to the need, that it may give grace to those who hear.
Ep 4:30And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed unto the day of redemption.
Ep 4:31Let all bitterness and anger and wrath and clamor and evil speaking be removed from you, with all malice.
Ep 4:32And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ also forgave you.
Ep 5:1Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children;
Ep 5:2And walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave Himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor.
Ep 5:3But fornication and all uncleanness or greediness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints,
Ep 5:4And obscenity and foolish talking or sly, filthy jesting, which are not becoming, but rather the giving of thanks.
Ep 5:5For this you realize, knowing that every fornicator or unclean person or greedy person (who is an idolater) has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Ep 5:6Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience.
Ep 5:7Therefore do not be partakers with them;
Ep 5:8For you were once darkness but are now light in the Lord; walk as children of light
Ep 5:9(For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
Ep 5:10Proving what is well pleasing to the Lord.
Ep 5:11And do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
Ep 5:12For the things which are done by them in secret it is shameful even to speak of.
Ep 5:13But all things which are reproved are made manifest by the light; for everything that makes manifest is light.
Ep 5:14Therefore He says, Awake, sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
Ep 5:15Look therefore carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise,
Ep 5:16Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Ep 5:17Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
Ep 5:18And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissoluteness, but be filled in spirit,
Ep 5:19Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and psalming with your heart to the Lord,
Ep 5:20Giving thanks at all times for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to our God and Father,
Ep 5:21Being subject to one another in the fear of Christ:
Ep 5:22Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord;
Ep 5:23For a husband is head of the wife as also Christ is Head of the church, He Himself being the Savior of the Body.
Ep 5:24But as the church is subject to Christ, so also let the wives be subject to their husbands in everything.
Ep 5:25Husbands, love your wives even as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself up for her
Ep 5:26That He might sanctify her, cleansing her by the washing of the water in the word,
Ep 5:27That He might present the church to Himself glorious, not having spot or wrinkle or any such things, but that she would be holy and without blemish.
Ep 5:28In the same way the husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he who loves his own wife loves himself.
Ep 5:29For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as Christ also the church,
Ep 5:30Because we are members of His Body.
Ep 5:31For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
Ep 5:32This mystery is great, but I speak with regard to Christ and the church.
Ep 5:33Nevertheless you also, each one of you, in the same way love your own wife as yourself; and the wife should fear her husband.
Ep 6:1Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Ep 6:2“Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise,
Ep 6:3“That it may be well with you and that you may live long on the earth.”
Ep 6:4And fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but nurture them in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
Ep 6:5Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ;
Ep 6:6Not with eye-service as men-pleasers but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul;
Ep 6:7With good will serving as slaves, as serving the Lord and not men;
Ep 6:8Knowing that whatever good thing each one does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or a free man.
Ep 6:9And masters, do the same things toward them, giving up your threatening, knowing that both their Master and yours is in the heavens, and there is no respect of persons with Him.
Ep 6:10Finally, be empowered in the Lord and in the might of His strength.
Ep 6:11Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the stratagems of the devil,
Ep 6:12For our wrestling is not against blood and flesh but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenlies.
Ep 6:13Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
Ep 6:14Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness
Ep 6:15And having shod your feet with the firm foundation of the gospel of peace;
Ep 6:16Besides all these, having taken up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the flaming darts of the evil one.
Ep 6:17And receive the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which Spirit is the word of God,
Ep 6:18By means of all prayer and petition, praying at every time in spirit and watching unto this in all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints,
Ep 6:19And for me, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known in boldness the mystery of the gospel,
Ep 6:20For which I am an ambassador in a chain, that in it I would speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
Ep 6:21But that you also may know the things concerning me, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known to you.
Ep 6:22Him I have sent to you for this very thing, that you may know the things concerning us and that he may comfort your hearts.
Ep 6:23Peace to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ep 6:24Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility.
Pp 1:1Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
Pp 1:2Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Pp 1:3I thank my God upon all my remembrance of you,
Pp 1:4Always in my every petition on behalf of you all, making my petition with joy,
Pp 1:5For your fellowship unto the furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now,
Pp 1:6Being confident of this very thing, that He who has begun in you a good work will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus;
Pp 1:7Even as it is right for me to think this concerning you all because you have me in your heart, since both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel you are all fellow partakers with me of grace.
Pp 1:8For God is my witness how I long after you all in the inward parts of Christ Jesus.
Pp 1:9And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all discernment,
Pp 1:10So that you may approve by testing the things which differ and are more excellent, that you may be pure and without offense unto the day of Christ,
Pp 1:11Being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Pp 1:12Now I want you to know, brothers, that the things concerning me have turned out rather to the advancement of the gospel,
Pp 1:13So that my bonds have become manifest as being in Christ among the whole Praetorian guard and to all the rest.
Pp 1:14And most of the brothers, being confident in the Lord because of my bonds, are more exceedingly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
Pp 1:15Some preach Christ even because of envy and strife, and some also because of good will,
Pp 1:16These out of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel.
Pp 1:17But the others announce Christ out of selfish ambition, not purely, thinking to raise up affliction in my bonds.
Pp 1:18What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truthfulness, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice; yes, and I will rejoice;
Pp 1:19For I know that for me this will turn out to salvation through your petition and the bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Pp 1:20According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I will be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, even now Christ will be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death.
Pp 1:21For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.
Pp 1:22But if I am to live in the flesh, if this to me is fruit for my work, then I do not know what I will choose.
Pp 1:23But I am constrained between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for this is far better;
Pp 1:24But to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
Pp 1:25And being confident of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of the faith,
Pp 1:26That your boast may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my coming again to you.
Pp 1:27Only, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether coming and seeing you or being absent, I may hear of the things concerning you, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving together along with the faith of the gospel,
Pp 1:28And in nothing being frightened by the opposers, which is to them a proof of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
Pp 1:29Because to you it has been graciously granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe into Him but also to suffer on His behalf,
Pp 1:30Having the same struggle which you saw in me and now hear to be in me.
Pp 2:1If there is therefore any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any tenderheartedness and compassions,
Pp 2:2Make my joy full, that you think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking the one thing,
Pp 2:3Doing nothing by way of selfish ambition nor by way of vainglory, but in lowliness of mind considering one another more excellent than yourselves;
Pp 2:4Not regarding each his own virtues, but each the virtues of others also.
Pp 2:5Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
Pp 2:6Who, existing in the form of God, did not consider being equal with God a treasure to be grasped,
Pp 2:7But emptied Himself, taking the form of a slave, becoming in the likeness of men;
Pp 2:8And being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient even unto death, and that the death of a cross.
Pp 2:9Therefore also God highly exalted Him and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name,
Pp 2:10That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
Pp 2:11And every tongue should openly confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
Pp 2:12So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling;
Pp 2:13For it is God who operates in you both the willing and the working for His good pleasure.
Pp 2:14Do all things without murmurings and reasonings
Pp 2:15That you may be blameless and guileless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as luminaries in the world,
Pp 2:16Holding forth the word of life, so that I may have a boast in the day of Christ that I did not run in vain nor labor in vain.
Pp 2:17But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and I rejoice together with you all.
Pp 2:18And in like manner you also rejoice, and you rejoice together with me.
Pp 2:19But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged by knowing the things concerning you.
Pp 2:20For I have no one like-souled who will genuinely care for what concerns you;
Pp 2:21For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
Pp 2:22But you know his approvedness, that as a child with a father he has served with me unto the gospel.
Pp 2:23Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I see how things go with me.
Pp 2:24But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly.
Pp 2:25But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your apostle and minister to my need,
Pp 2:26Since he longed after you all and was greatly distressed because you heard that he had become sick;
Pp 2:27For indeed he had become sick, near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
Pp 2:28I have sent him therefore the more eagerly, so that when you see him again, you may rejoice and I may be less sorrowful.
Pp 2:29Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor,
Pp 2:30Because for the work of Christ he drew near unto death, risking his life, that he might fill up your lack of service toward me.
Pp 3:1Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, for me it is not irksome, but for you it is safe.
Pp 3:2Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the concision.
Pp 3:3For we are the circumcision, the ones who serve by the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh,
Pp 3:4Though I myself have something to be confident of in the flesh as well. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I more:
Pp 3:5Circumcised the eighth day; of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee;
Pp 3:6As to zeal, persecuting the church; as to the righteousness which is in the law, become blameless.
Pp 3:7But what things were gains to me, these I have counted as loss on account of Christ.
Pp 3:8But moreover I also count all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as refuse that I may gain Christ
Pp 3:9And be found in Him, not having my own righteousness which is out of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is out of God and based on faith,
Pp 3:10To know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death,
Pp 3:11If perhaps I may attain to the out-resurrection from the dead.
Pp 3:12Not that I have already obtained or am already perfected, but I pursue, if even I may lay hold of that for which I also have been laid hold of by Christ Jesus.
Pp 3:13Brothers, I do not account of myself to have laid hold; but one thing I do: Forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are before,
Pp 3:14I pursue toward the goal for the prize to which God in Christ Jesus has called me upward.
Pp 3:15Let us therefore, as many as are full-grown, have this mind; and if in anything you are otherwise minded, this also God will reveal to you.
Pp 3:16Nevertheless whereunto we have attained, by the same rule let us walk.
Pp 3:17Be imitators together of me, brothers, and observe those who thus walk even as you have us as a pattern.
Pp 3:18For many walk, of whom I have told you often and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ,
Pp 3:19Whose end is destruction, whose god is their stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things.
Pp 3:20For our commonwealth exists in the heavens, from which also we eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
Pp 3:21Who will transfigure the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of His glory, according to His operation by which He is able even to subject all things to Himself.
Pp 4:1So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, in the same way stand firm in the Lord, beloved.
Pp 4:2I exhort Euodias, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same thing in the Lord.
Pp 4:3Yes, I ask you also, genuine yokefellow, assist them, since they contended with me in the gospel, as well as with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Pp 4:4Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice.
Pp 4:5Let your forbearance be known to all men. The Lord is near.
Pp 4:6In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God;
Pp 4:7And the peace of God, which surpasses every man’s understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Pp 4:8Finally, brothers, what things are true, what things are dignified, what things are righteous, what things are pure, what things are lovely, what things are well spoken of, if there is any virtue and if any praise, take account of these things.
Pp 4:9The things which you have also learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things; and the God of peace will be with you.
Pp 4:10But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly because now at length you have caused your thinking for me to blossom anew; for which matter you had indeed taken thought, but lacked opportunity.
Pp 4:11Not that I speak according to lack, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be content.
Pp 4:12I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound; in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to hunger, both to abound and to lack.
Pp 4:13I am able to do all things in Him who empowers me.
Pp 4:14Nevertheless you did well to have fellowship with me in my affliction.
Pp 4:15And you yourselves also know, Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went out from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the account of giving and receiving except you only;
Pp 4:16For even in Thessalonica you sent both once and again to my need.
Pp 4:17Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit which increases to your account.
Pp 4:18But I have received in full all things and abound; I have been filled, receiving from Epaphroditus the things from you, a sweet-smelling savor, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God.
Pp 4:19And my God will fill your every need according to His riches, in glory, in Christ Jesus.
Pp 4:20Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Pp 4:21Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
Pp 4:22All the saints greet you, and especially those of Caesar’s household.
Pp 4:23The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Co 1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother,
Co 1:2To the saints in Colossae and faithful brothers in Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
Co 1:3We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always concerning you,
Co 1:4Because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love which you have unto all the saints
Co 1:5Because of the hope laid up for you in the heavens, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel,
Co 1:6Which has come to you, even as it is also in all the world, bearing fruit and growing, as also in you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth;
Co 1:7Even as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved fellow slave, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf,
Co 1:8Who also has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
Co 1:9Therefore we also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease praying and asking on your behalf that you may be filled with the full knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
Co 1:10To walk worthily of the Lord to please Him in all things, bearing fruit in every good work and growing by the full knowledge of God,
Co 1:11Being empowered with all power, according to the might of His glory, unto all endurance and long-suffering with joy,
Co 1:12Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you for a share of the allotted portion of the saints in the light;
Co 1:13Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of His love,
Co 1:14In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins;
Co 1:15Who is the image of the invisible God, the Firstborn of all creation,
Co 1:16Because in Him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, the visible and the invisible, whether thrones or lordships or rulers or authorities; all things have been created through Him and unto Him.
Co 1:17And He is before all things, and all things cohere in Him;
Co 1:18And He is the Head of the Body, the church; He is the beginning, the Firstborn from the dead, that He Himself might have the first place in all things;
Co 1:19For in Him all the fullness was pleased to dwell
Co 1:20And through Him to reconcile all things to Himself, having made peace through the blood of His cross — through Him, whether the things on the earth or the things in the heavens.
Co 1:21And you, though once alienated and enemies in your mind because of your evil works,
Co 1:22He now has reconciled in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy and without blemish and without reproach before Him;
Co 1:23If indeed you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast and not being moved away from the hope of the gospel, which you heard, which was proclaimed in all creation under heaven, of which I Paul became a minister.
Co 1:24I now rejoice in my sufferings on your behalf and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for His Body, which is the church;
Co 1:25Of which I became a minister according to the stewardship of God, which was given to me for you, to complete the word of God,
Co 1:26The mystery which has been hidden from the ages and from the generations but now has been manifested to His saints;
Co 1:27To whom God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
Co 1:28Whom we announce, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man full-grown in Christ;
Co 1:29For which also I labor, struggling according to His operation which operates in me in power.
Co 2:1For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those in Laodicea, even all who have not seen my face in the flesh,
Co 2:2That their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in love and unto all the riches of the full assurance of understanding, unto the full knowledge of the mystery of God, Christ,
Co 2:3In whom all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden.
Co 2:4This I say that no one may delude you with persuasive speech.
Co 2:5For even though I am absent in the flesh, yet in the spirit I am with you, rejoicing and seeing your order and the solid basis of your faith in Christ.
Co 2:6As therefore you have received the Christ, Jesus the Lord, walk in Him,
Co 2:7Having been rooted and being built up in Him, and being established in the faith even as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
Co 2:8Beware that no one carries you off as spoil through his philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the elements of the world, and not according to Christ;
Co 2:9For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily,
Co 2:10And you have been made full in Him, who is the Head of all rule and authority.
Co 2:11In Him also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ,
Co 2:12Buried together with Him in baptism, in which also you were raised together with Him through the faith of the operation of God, who raised Him from the dead.
Co 2:13And you, though dead in your offenses and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made alive together with Him, having forgiven us all our offenses;
Co 2:14Wiping out the handwriting in ordinances, which was against us, which was contrary to us; and He has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross.
Co 2:15Stripping off the rulers and the authorities, He made a display of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
Co 2:16Let no one therefore judge you in eating and in drinking or in respect of a feast or of a new moon or of the Sabbath,
Co 2:17Which are a shadow of the things to come, but the body is of Christ.
Co 2:18Let no one defraud you by judging you unworthy of your prize, in self-chosen lowliness and the worship of the angels, dwelling on the things which he has seen, vainly puffed up by his mind set on the flesh,
Co 2:19And not holding the Head, out from whom all the Body, being richly supplied and knit together by means of the joints and sinews, grows with the growth of God.
Co 2:20If you died with Christ from the elements of the world, why, as living in the world, do you subject yourselves to ordinances:
Co 2:21Do not handle, nor taste, nor touch,
Co 2:22(Regarding things which are all to perish when used) according to the commandments and teachings of men?
Co 2:23Such things indeed have a reputation of wisdom in self-imposed worship and lowliness and severe treatment of the body, but are not of any value against the indulgence of the flesh.
Co 3:1If therefore you were raised together with Christ, seek the things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God.
Co 3:2Set your mind on the things which are above, not on the things which are on the earth.
Co 3:3For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
Co 3:4When Christ our life is manifested, then you also will be manifested with Him in glory.
Co 3:5Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and greediness, which is idolatry;
Co 3:6Because of which things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience;
Co 3:7In which you also once walked, when you lived in these things.
Co 3:8But now, you also, put away all these things: wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, foul abusive language out of your mouth.
Co 3:9Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his practices
Co 3:10And have put on the new man, which is being renewed unto full knowledge according to the image of Him who created him,
Co 3:11Where there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free man, but Christ is all and in all.
Co 3:12Put on therefore, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, inward parts of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, long-suffering;
Co 3:13Bearing one another and forgiving one another, if anyone should have a complaint against anyone; even as the Lord forgave you, so also should you forgive.
Co 3:14And over all these things put on love, which is the uniting bond of perfectness.
Co 3:15And let the peace of Christ arbitrate in your hearts, to which also you were called in one Body; and be thankful.
Co 3:16Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to God.
Co 3:17And whatever you do in word or in deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him.
Co 3:18Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Co 3:19Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter against them.
Co 3:20Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing in the Lord.
Co 3:21Fathers, do not vex your children, that they may not be disheartened.
Co 3:22Slaves, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing the Lord.
Co 3:23Whatever you do, work from the soul as to the Lord and not to men,
Co 3:24Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as recompense. You serve the Lord Christ.
Co 3:25For he who does unrighteously will receive what he unrighteously did, and there is no respect of persons.
Co 4:1Masters, grant to your slaves that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Co 4:2Persevere in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving,
Co 4:3Praying at the same time for us also, that God would open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ (because of which also I am bound),
Co 4:4That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Co 4:5Walk in wisdom toward those who are without, redeeming the time.
Co 4:6Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
Co 4:7All the things concerning me, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow slave in the Lord, will make known to you,
Co 4:8Whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that you might know the things concerning us and that he might comfort your hearts;
Co 4:9With Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all the things here.
Co 4:10Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, as well as Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, (concerning whom you received commandments, If he comes to you, receive him),
Co 4:11And Jesus, who is called Justus; these alone of the circumcision are my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, ones who have become a consolation to me.
Co 4:12Epaphras, who is one of you, a slave of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
Co 4:13For I testify of him that he labors much for you and for those in Laodicea and for those in Hierapolis.
Co 4:14Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, as well as Demas.
Co 4:15Greet the brothers in Laodicea, as well as Nymphas and the church, which is in his house.
Co 4:16And when this letter is read among you, cause that it be read in the church of the Laodiceans also, and that you also read the one from Laodicea.
Co 4:17And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.
Co 4:18The greeting in my own hand — Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.
1Th 1:1Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.
1Th 1:2We thank God always concerning all of you, making mention of you in our prayers,
1Th 1:3Remembering unceasingly your work of faith and labor of love and endurance of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, before our God and Father;
1Th 1:4Knowing, brothers, beloved of God, your selection;
1Th 1:5For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, even as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake.
1Th 1:6And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit,
1Th 1:7So that you became a pattern to all those who believe in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1Th 1:8For from you the word of the Lord has sounded out; not only in Macedonia and in Achaia, but in every place, your faith toward God has gone out, so that we have no need of saying anything.
1Th 1:9For they themselves report concerning us what kind of entrance we had toward you and how you turned to God from the idols to serve a living and true God
1Th 1:10And await His Son from the heavens, whom He raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath which is coming.
1Th 2:1For you yourselves know, brothers, our entrance toward you, that it has not been in vain.
1Th 2:2But having suffered previously and having been outrageously treated, even as you know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much struggle.
1Th 2:3For our exhortation is not out of deception nor out of uncleanness nor in guile;
1Th 2:4But even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men but God, who proves our hearts.
1Th 2:5For neither were we found at any time with flattering speech, even as you know, nor with a pretext for covetousness; God is witness.
1Th 2:6Nor did we seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others, though we could have stood on our authority as apostles of Christ.
1Th 2:7But we were gentle in your midst, as a nursing mother would cherish her own children.
1Th 2:8Yearning in this way over you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.
1Th 2:9For you remember, brothers, our labor and travail: While working night and day so as not to be burdensome to any of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
1Th 2:10You are witnesses, as well as God, how in a holy and righteous and blameless manner we conducted ourselves toward you who believe,
1Th 2:11Just as you know how we were to each one of you, as a father to his own children, exhorting you and consoling you and testifying,
1Th 2:12So that you might walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into His own kingdom and glory.
1Th 2:13And because of this we also thank God unceasingly that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but even as it truly is, the word of God, which also operates in you who believe.
1Th 2:14For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, even as they also from the Jews,
1Th 2:15Who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out; and they are not pleasing to God and are contrary to all men,
1Th 2:16In that they forbid us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, so that they fill up their sins always. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.
1Th 2:17But we, brothers, having been bereaved of you for a little while, in presence, not in heart, were more abundantly eager with great desire to see your face.
1Th 2:18Therefore we wanted to come to you, indeed I Paul, both once and again, yet Satan hindered us.
1Th 2:19For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at His coming? Are not even you?
1Th 2:20For you are our glory and joy.
1Th 3:1Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we thought it good to be left in Athens alone,
1Th 3:2And we sent Timothy, our brother and God’s fellow worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and encourage you for the sake of your faith,
1Th 3:3That no one would be shaken by these afflictions; for you yourselves know that we are appointed for this.
1Th 3:4For even when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we are to be afflicted, even as it also came to pass and you know.
1Th 3:5Because of this, when I also could bear it no longer, I sent to find out concerning your faith, lest perhaps the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain.
1Th 3:6But Timothy, having just come to us from you and announcing the good news to us of your faith and love and that you have kind remembrance of us always and long to see us, just as we also you,
1Th 3:7Because of this we were comforted because of you, brothers, in all our necessity and affliction, through your faith;
1Th 3:8Because now we live if you stand firm in the Lord.
1Th 3:9For what thanks can we return to God concerning you for all the joy with which we rejoice because of you before our God,
1Th 3:10Night and day petitioning exceedingly so that we may see your face and complete the things that are lacking in your faith?
1Th 3:11Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus make straight our path to you;
1Th 3:12And the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love to one another and to all, just as we also to you,
1Th 3:13So that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His saints.
1Th 4:1Furthermore, brothers, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that even as you received from us how you ought to walk and please God, even as indeed you do walk, that you abound still more.
1Th 4:2For you know what charges we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
1Th 4:3For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from fornication;
1Th 4:4That each one of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor,
1Th 4:5Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
1Th 4:6That no one overstep and take advantage of his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger concerning all these things, even as we also said before to you and solemnly charged.
1Th 4:7For God has not called us for uncleanness but in sanctification.
1Th 4:8Consequently, he who rejects, rejects not man but God, who also gives His Holy Spirit to you.
1Th 4:9Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for me to write to you, for you yourselves are taught of God to love one another;
1Th 4:10For you also do this unto all the brothers in the whole of Macedonia. But we exhort you, brothers, to abound still more
1Th 4:11And to aspire to be quiet and attend to your own affairs and work with your hands, even as we charged you,
1Th 4:12That you may walk becomingly toward those outside and may have need of nothing.
1Th 4:13But we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are sleeping, that you would not grieve even as also the rest who have no hope.
1Th 4:14For if we believe that Jesus died and rose, so also those who have fallen asleep through Jesus, God will bring with Him.
1Th 4:15For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are living, who are left remaining unto the coming of the Lord, shall by no means precede those who have fallen asleep;
1Th 4:16Because the Lord Himself, with a shout of command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, will descend from heaven, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
1Th 4:17Then we who are living, who are left remaining, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we will be always with the Lord.
1Th 4:18Therefore comfort one another with these words.
1Th 5:1But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need for anything to be written to you;
1Th 5:2For you yourselves know perfectly well that like a thief in the night, so the day of the Lord comes.
1Th 5:3When they say, Peace and security, then sudden destruction comes upon them, just as birth pangs to a woman with child; and they shall by no means escape.
1Th 5:4But you, brothers, are not in darkness that the day should overtake you like a thief;
1Th 5:5For you are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
1Th 5:6So then let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober.
1Th 5:7For those who sleep, sleep during the night, and those who get drunk are drunk during the night;
1Th 5:8But since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
1Th 5:9For God did not appoint us to wrath but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1Th 5:10Who died for us in order that whether we watch or sleep, we may live together with Him.
1Th 5:11Therefore comfort one another, and build up each one the other, even as you also do.
1Th 5:12Furthermore we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you and take the lead among you in the Lord and admonish you,
1Th 5:13And to regard them most highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
1Th 5:14And we exhort you, brothers, Admonish the disorderly, console the fainthearted, sustain the weak, be long-suffering toward all.
1Th 5:15See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always pursue what is good both for one another and for all.
1Th 5:16Always rejoice,
1Th 5:17Unceasingly pray,
1Th 5:18In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
1Th 5:19Do not quench the Spirit;
1Th 5:20Do not despise prophecies,
1Th 5:21But prove all things. Hold fast to what is good;
1Th 5:22Abstain from every kind of evil.
1Th 5:23And the God of peace Himself sanctify you wholly, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1Th 5:24Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it.
1Th 5:25Brothers, pray also for us.
1Th 5:26Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
1Th 5:27I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
1Th 5:28The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
2Th 1:1Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:
2Th 1:2Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 1:3We ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers, even as it is fitting, because your faith grows exceedingly and the love of each one of you all to one another is increasing,
2Th 1:4So that we ourselves boast in you among the churches of God concerning your endurance and faith in all your persecutions and the afflictions which you bear,
2Th 1:5A plain indication of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be accounted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which also you suffer;
2Th 1:6Since it is just with God to repay with affliction those afflicting you,
2Th 1:7And to you who are being afflicted, rest with us at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of His power, in flaming fire,
2Th 1:8Rendering vengeance to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 1:9They will pay the penalty of eternal destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His strength
2Th 1:10When He comes to be glorified in His saints and to be marveled at in all those who have believed (because our testimony to you was believed) in that day.
2Th 1:11For which also we pray always concerning you, that our God may count you worthy of your calling and may fulfill in power your every good intention for goodness and your work of faith,
2Th 1:12So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 2:1Now we ask you, brothers, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him,
2Th 2:2That you be not quickly shaken in mind nor alarmed, neither by a spirit nor by word nor by a letter as if by us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.
2Th 2:3Let no one deceive you in any way, because it will not come unless the apostasy comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of perdition,
2Th 2:4Who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or an object of worship, so that he sits in the temple of God, setting himself forth, saying that he is God.
2Th 2:5Do you not remember that while I was still with you, I said these things to you?
2Th 2:6And now you know that which restrains, so that he might be revealed in his own time.
2Th 2:7For it is the mystery of lawlessness that is now operating, but only until the one now restraining goes out of the way.
2Th 2:8And then the lawless one will be revealed (whom the Lord Jesus will slay by the breath of His mouth and bring to nothing by the manifestation of His coming),
2Th 2:9The coming of whom is according to Satan’s operation in all power and signs and wonders of a lie
2Th 2:10And in all deceit of unrighteousness among those who are perishing, because they did not receive the love of the truth that they might be saved.
2Th 2:11And because of this God sends to them an operation of error that they might believe the lie,
2Th 2:12So that all who have not believed the truth but have taken pleasure in unrighteousness might be judged.
2Th 2:13But we ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers beloved of the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning unto salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth,
2Th 2:14To which also He called you through our gospel unto the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2Th 2:15So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the things which were handed down to you and which you were taught, whether by word or by our letter.
2Th 2:16Now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father, who has loved us and given us eternal comfort and good hope in grace,
2Th 2:17Comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and word.
2Th 3:1Finally, brothers, pray concerning us, that the word of the Lord may run and be glorified, even as it is also with you;
2Th 3:2And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men, for the faith does not belong to all.
2Th 3:3But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one.
2Th 3:4And we have confidence in the Lord concerning you that what we charge, you both are doing and will do.
2Th 3:5And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the endurance of Christ.
2Th 3:6Now we charge you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from every brother walking disorderly and not according to the things which were handed down to you and which you received from us.
2Th 3:7For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not disorderly among you;
2Th 3:8Nor did we eat bread as a gift from anyone, but in labor and hardship we worked night and day so that we would not be burdensome to any of you;
2Th 3:9Not because we do not have the right, but in order that we might give ourselves to you as a pattern that you might imitate us.
2Th 3:10For even when we were with you, we gave you this charge, that if anyone does not want to work, neither should he eat.
2Th 3:11For we hear of some walking among you disorderly, doing no work at all, but being busybodies.
2Th 3:12Now such ones we charge and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ to work with quietness and eat their own bread.
2Th 3:13But you, brothers, do not lose heart in doing good.
2Th 3:14And if anyone does not obey our word through this letter, mark this one so as not to mingle with him, in order that he may be ashamed.
2Th 3:15Yet do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
2Th 3:16Now the Lord of peace Himself give you peace continually in every way. The Lord be with you all.
2Th 3:17The greeting in my own hand — Paul — which is the mark in every letter; so I write.
2Th 3:18The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
1Ti 1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus according to the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
1Ti 1:2To Timothy, genuine child in faith: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1Ti 1:3Even as I exhorted you, when I was going into Macedonia, to remain in Ephesus in order that you might charge certain ones not to teach different things
1Ti 1:4Nor to give heed to myths and unending genealogies, which produce questionings rather than God’s economy, which is in faith.
1Ti 1:5But the end of the charge is love out of a pure heart and out of a good conscience and out of unfeigned faith;
1Ti 1:6From which things some, having misaimed, have turned aside to vain talking,
1Ti 1:7Desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither the things that they say, nor concerning what they confidently affirm.
1Ti 1:8But we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully
1Ti 1:9And knows this, that the law is not enacted for a righteous man but for the lawless and unruly, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and those who strike their mothers, for murderers,
1Ti 1:10For fornicators, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, perjurers, and whatever other thing that is opposed to the healthy teaching,
1Ti 1:11According to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted.
1Ti 1:12I give thanks to Him who empowers me, Christ Jesus our Lord, that He has counted me faithful, appointing me to the ministry,
1Ti 1:13Who formerly was a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insulting person; but I was shown mercy because, being ignorant, I acted in unbelief.
1Ti 1:14And the grace of our Lord superabounded with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
1Ti 1:15Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am foremost.
1Ti 1:16But because of this I was shown mercy, that in me, the foremost, Jesus Christ might display all His long-suffering for a pattern to those who are to believe on Him unto eternal life.
1Ti 1:17Now to the King of the ages, incorruptible, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
1Ti 1:18This charge I commit to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you might war the good warfare,
1Ti 1:19Holding faith and a good conscience, concerning which some, thrusting these away, have become shipwrecked regarding the faith;
1Ti 1:20Of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan that they may be disciplined not to blaspheme.
1Ti 2:1I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men;
1Ti 2:2On behalf of kings and all who are in high position, that we may lead a quiet and tranquil life in all godliness and gravity.
1Ti 2:3This is good and acceptable in the sight of our Savior God,
1Ti 2:4Who desires all men to be saved and to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
1Ti 2:5For there is one God and one Mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
1Ti 2:6Who gave Himself as a ransom for all, the testimony to be borne in its own times.
1Ti 2:7For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle (I speak the truth; I do not lie), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
1Ti 2:8I desire therefore that men pray in every place, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and reasoning;
1Ti 2:9Similarly, that women adorn themselves in proper clothing with modesty and sobriety, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly clothing,
1Ti 2:10But, what befits women professing godly reverence, by good works.
1Ti 2:11Let a woman learn in quietness in all subjection;
1Ti 2:12But I do not permit a woman to teach or to assert authority over a man, but to be in quietness.
1Ti 2:13For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
1Ti 2:14And Adam was not deceived; but the woman, having been quite deceived, has fallen into transgression.
1Ti 2:15But she will be saved through her childbearing, if they remain in faith and love and holiness with sobriety.
1Ti 3:1Faithful is the word: If anyone aspires to the overseership, he desires a good work.
1Ti 3:2The overseer then must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, of a sober mind, orderly, hospitable, apt to teach;
1Ti 3:3Not an excessive drinker; not a striker, but forbearing; not contentious; not fond of money;
1Ti 3:4One who manages well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity
1Ti 3:5(But if one does not know how to manage his own house, how will he care for the church of God?);
1Ti 3:6Not a new convert, lest being blinded with pride he fall into the judgment suffered by the devil.
1Ti 3:7And he also must have a good testimony from those outside, that he may not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
1Ti 3:8Deacons must similarly be grave, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for base gain;
1Ti 3:9Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
1Ti 3:10And these also must first be proved; then let them minister if they are unreprovable.
1Ti 3:11Women similarly must be grave, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things.
1Ti 3:12Deacons must be husbands of one wife, managing their children and their own houses well.
1Ti 3:13For those who have ministered well obtain for themselves a good standing and much boldness in faith, which is in Christ Jesus.
1Ti 3:14These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly.
1Ti 3:15But if I delay, I write that you may know how one ought to conduct himself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and base of the truth.
1Ti 3:16And confessedly, great is the mystery of godliness:  He who was manifested in the flesh, /  Justified in the Spirit, /  Seen by angels, /  Preached among the nations, /  Believed on in the world, /  Taken up in glory.
1Ti 4:1But the Spirit says expressly that in later times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and teachings of demons
1Ti 4:2By means of the hypocrisy of men who speak lies, of men who are branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron,
1Ti 4:3Who forbid marriage and command abstaining from foods, which God has created to be partaken of with thanksgiving by those who believe and have full knowledge of the truth.
1Ti 4:4For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if received with thanksgiving;
1Ti 4:5For it is sanctified through the word of God and intercession.
1Ti 4:6If you lay these things before the brothers, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, being nourished with the words of the faith and of the good teaching which you have closely followed.
1Ti 4:7But the profane and old-womanish myths refuse, and exercise yourself unto godliness.
1Ti 4:8For bodily exercise is profitable for a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the present life and of that which is to come.
1Ti 4:9Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance.
1Ti 4:10For to this end we labor and strive, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
1Ti 4:11Charge and teach these things.
1Ti 4:12Let no one despise your youth, but be a pattern to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
1Ti 4:13Until I come, attend to the public reading, to the exhortation, to the teaching.
1Ti 4:14Do not neglect the gift which is in you, which was given to you by means of prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
1Ti 4:15Practice these things; be in them, that your progress may be manifest to all.
1Ti 4:16Take heed to yourself and to your teaching; continue in these things; for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you.
1Ti 5:1Do not upbraid an elderly man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers,
1Ti 5:2Elderly women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
1Ti 5:3Honor widows who are really widows.
1Ti 5:4But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show respect toward their own household and to render a return to their parents; for this is acceptable in the sight of God.
1Ti 5:5Now she who is really a widow and is left alone has set her hope on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day.
1Ti 5:6But she who gives herself to pleasure is dead while living.
1Ti 5:7These things also charge, that they may be without reproach.
1Ti 5:8But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
1Ti 5:9Let a widow be enrolled, not under sixty years old, having been the wife of one man,
1Ti 5:10Well attested for good works, if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality to strangers, if she has washed the saints’ feet, if she has assisted the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work.
1Ti 5:11But younger widows refuse; for when they follow their passions in disregard of Christ, they desire to marry,
1Ti 5:12And thus have condemnation because they have set aside their first pledge.
1Ti 5:13And at the same time they also learn to be idle, going around from house to house; and they are not only idle but also gossips and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.
1Ti 5:14I will therefore that younger widows marry, bear children, keep house, give no opportunity to the opposer for reproach;
1Ti 5:15For already some have turned aside after Satan.
1Ti 5:16If any believing woman has widows in her family, let her assist them, and let not the church be burdened, that it may assist those who are really widows.
1Ti 5:17Let the elders who take the lead well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and teaching.
1Ti 5:18For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle an ox that is treading out the grain,” and, “The workman is worthy of his pay.”
1Ti 5:19Against an elder do not receive an accusation, except based upon two or three witnesses.
1Ti 5:20The ones who sin reprove before all that the rest also may have fear.
1Ti 5:21I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels that you keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing by way of partiality.
1Ti 5:22Lay hands quickly on no man, nor participate in others’ sins; keep yourself pure.
1Ti 5:23No longer drink water only, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
1Ti 5:24The sins of some men are openly manifest, going before to judgment; and for others, they also follow after.
1Ti 5:25Likewise also the good works are openly manifest, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.
1Ti 6:1As many as are slaves under the yoke should regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, lest the name of God and our teaching be blasphemed.
1Ti 6:2And those who have believing masters should not despise them, because they are brothers; but rather they should serve them, because those who recompense them for the kindly service received are believers and beloved. These things teach and exhort.
1Ti 6:3If anyone teaches different things and does not consent to healthy words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the teaching which is according to godliness,
1Ti 6:4He is blinded with pride, understanding nothing, but is diseased with questionings and contentions of words, out of which come envy, strife, slanders, evil suspicions,
1Ti 6:5Perpetual wranglings of men corrupted in mind and deprived of the truth, supposing godliness to be a means of gain.
1Ti 6:6But godliness with contentment is great gain;
1Ti 6:7For we have brought nothing into the world, because neither can we carry anything out.
1Ti 6:8But having food and covering, with these we will be content.
1Ti 6:9But those who intend to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge men into destruction and ruin.
1Ti 6:10For the love of money is a root of all evils, because of which some, aspiring after money, have been led away from the faith and pierced themselves through with many pains.
1Ti 6:11But you, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, meekness.
1Ti 6:12Fight the good fight of the faith; lay hold on the eternal life, to which you were called and have confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
1Ti 6:13I charge you before God, who preserves all things in life, and Christ Jesus, who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate,
1Ti 6:14To keep the commandment spotless, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1Ti 6:15Which in its own times the blessed and only Sovereign will show, the King of those who reign as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords,
1Ti 6:16Who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom be honor and eternal might. Amen.
1Ti 6:17Charge those who are rich in the present age not to be high-minded, nor to set their hope on the uncertainty of riches but on God, who affords us all things richly for our enjoyment;
1Ti 6:18To do good, to be rich in good works, to be ready to distribute, to be ones willing to share;
1Ti 6:19Laying away for themselves a good foundation as a treasure for the future, that they may lay hold on that which is really life.
1Ti 6:20O Timothy, guard the deposit, turning away from profane, vain babblings and oppositions from what is falsely called knowledge,
1Ti 6:21Because of which some, professing this, have misaimed regarding the faith. Grace be with you.
2Ti 1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus,
2Ti 1:2To Timothy, beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2Ti 1:3I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, while unceasingly I have remembrance concerning you in my petitions night and day,
2Ti 1:4Longing to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy;
2Ti 1:5Having been reminded of the unfeigned faith in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded dwells also in you.
2Ti 1:6For which cause I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands.
2Ti 1:7For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and of love and of sobermindedness.
2Ti 1:8Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord nor of me His prisoner; but suffer evil with the gospel according to the power of God;
2Ti 1:9Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to His own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the times of the ages
2Ti 1:10But now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who nullified death and brought life and incorruption to light through the gospel,
2Ti 1:11For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher.
2Ti 1:12For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to guard my deposit unto that day.
2Ti 1:13Hold a pattern of the healthy words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus.
2Ti 1:14Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
2Ti 1:15This you know, that all who are in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
2Ti 1:16May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain;
2Ti 1:17But being in Rome, he sought me out diligently and found me.
2Ti 1:18May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day. And in how many things he served me in Ephesus, you know best.
2Ti 2:1You therefore, my child, be empowered in the grace which is in Christ Jesus;
2Ti 2:2And the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses, these commit to faithful men, who will be competent to teach others also.
2Ti 2:3Suffer evil with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2Ti 2:4No one serving as a soldier entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please the one who enlisted him.
2Ti 2:5And also if anyone contends in the games, he is not crowned unless he contends lawfully.
2Ti 2:6The laboring farmer must be the first to partake of the fruit.
2Ti 2:7Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
2Ti 2:8Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel,
2Ti 2:9In which I suffer evil unto bonds as a criminal; but the word of God is not bound.
2Ti 2:10Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the chosen ones, that they themselves also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2Ti 2:11Faithful is the word: For if we died with Him, we will also live with Him;
2Ti 2:12If we endure, we will also reign with Him; if we deny Him, He also will deny us;
2Ti 2:13If we are faithless, He remains faithful, for He cannot deny Himself.
2Ti 2:14Remind them of these things, solemnly charging them before God not to have contentions of words, which is useful for nothing, to the ruin of those who hear.
2Ti 2:15Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, an unashamed workman, cutting straight the word of the truth.
2Ti 2:16But avoid profane, vain babblings, for they will advance to more ungodliness,
2Ti 2:17And their word will spread like gangrene, of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2Ti 2:18Who concerning the truth have misaimed, saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and overthrow the faith of some.
2Ti 2:19However the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are His, and, Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.
2Ti 2:20But in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels but also wooden and earthen; and some are unto honor, and some unto dishonor.
2Ti 2:21If therefore anyone cleanses himself from these, he will be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, useful to the master, prepared unto every good work.
2Ti 2:22But flee youthful lusts, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
2Ti 2:23But foolish questionings and those arising from an untrained mind refuse, knowing that they beget contentions.
2Ti 2:24But a slave of the Lord ought not to contend but be gentle toward all, apt to teach, bearing with wrong;
2Ti 2:25In meekness correcting those who oppose, if perhaps God may give them repentance unto the full knowledge of the truth,
2Ti 2:26And they may return to soberness out of the snare of the devil, having been caught alive by him, unto His will.
2Ti 3:1But know this, that in the last days difficult times will come.
2Ti 3:2For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boasters, arrogant, revilers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
2Ti 3:3Without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, savage, not lovers of good,
2Ti 3:4Traitors, reckless, blinded with pride, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
2Ti 3:5Having an outward form of godliness, though denying its power; from these also turn away.
2Ti 3:6For of these are those who creep into houses and take captive silly women heaped with sins, who are led by various desires
2Ti 3:7And are always learning yet never able to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
2Ti 3:8And in the manner that Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these also oppose the truth; men corrupted in mind, disapproved concerning the faith.
2Ti 3:9But they will not advance farther, for their folly will be completely manifest to all, as also the folly of those became.
2Ti 3:10But you have closely followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, long-suffering, love, endurance,
2Ti 3:11Persecutions, sufferings, such as befell me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra. Such persecutions I bore, and out of them all the Lord delivered me.
2Ti 3:12And indeed all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted.
2Ti 3:13But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
2Ti 3:14But you, continue in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from which ones you have learned them
2Ti 3:15And that from a babe you have known the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise unto salvation through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
2Ti 3:16All Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for conviction, for correction, for instruction in righteousness,
2Ti 3:17That the man of God may be complete, fully equipped for every good work.
2Ti 4:1I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by His appearing and His kingdom:
2Ti 4:2Proclaim the word; be ready in season and out of season; convict, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching.
2Ti 4:3For the time will come when they will not tolerate the healthy teaching; but according to their own lusts they will heap up to themselves teachers, having itching ears,
2Ti 4:4And they will turn away their ear from the truth and will be turned aside to myths.
2Ti 4:5But you, be sober in all things, suffer evil, do the work of an evangelist, fully accomplish your ministry.
2Ti 4:6For I am already being poured out, and the time of my departure is at hand.
2Ti 4:7I have fought the good fight; I have finished the course; I have kept the faith.
2Ti 4:8Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, with which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will recompense me in that day, and not only me but also all those who have loved His appearing.
2Ti 4:9Be diligent to come to me quickly;
2Ti 4:10For Demas has abandoned me, having loved the present age, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
2Ti 4:11Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for the ministry.
2Ti 4:12But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
2Ti 4:13The cloak which I left in Troas with Carpus, bring when you come, and the scrolls, especially the parchments.
2Ti 4:14Alexander the coppersmith did many evil things to me; the Lord will recompense him according to his works.
2Ti 4:15You also guard against him, for he greatly opposed our words.
2Ti 4:16At my first defense no one was with me to support me, but all abandoned me. May it not be counted against them.
2Ti 4:17But the Lord stood with me and empowered me that through me the proclamation of the gospel might be fully accomplished and all the Gentiles might hear; and I was delivered out of the lion’s mouth.
2Ti 4:18The Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will save me into His heavenly kingdom, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
2Ti 4:19Greet Prisca and Aquila and the house of Onesiphorus.
2Ti 4:20Erastus remained in Corinth, and Trophimus I left at Miletus sick.
2Ti 4:21Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as well as Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers.
2Ti 4:22The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.
Tt 1:1Paul, a slave of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God’s chosen ones and the full knowledge of the truth, which is according to godliness,
Tt 1:2In the hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before the times of the ages,
Tt 1:3But in its own times He manifested it as His word in the proclamation with which I was entrusted according to the command of our Savior God;
Tt 1:4To Titus, genuine child according to the common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.
Tt 1:5For this cause I left you in Crete, that you might set in order the things which I have begun that remain and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you:
Tt 1:6If anyone is unreprovable, the husband of one wife, having believing children not accused of dissoluteness or unruly.
Tt 1:7For the overseer must be unreprovable as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick tempered, not an excessive drinker, not a striker, not greedy for base gain;
Tt 1:8But hospitable, a lover of good, of a sober mind, righteous, holy, self-controlled;
Tt 1:9Holding to the faithful word, which is according to the teaching of the apostles, that he may be able both to exhort by the healthy teaching and to convict those who oppose.
Tt 1:10For there are many unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
Tt 1:11Whose mouths must be stopped, who overthrow whole households, teaching things for the sake of base gain, which they ought not to do.
Tt 1:12One from among themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, idle gluttons.
Tt 1:13This testimony is true; for which cause reprove them severely that they may be healthy in the faith,
Tt 1:14Not paying attention to Jewish myths and the commandments of men who turn away from the truth.
Tt 1:15All things are pure to the pure; yet to those who are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
Tt 1:16They profess to know God, but by their works they deny Him, being abominable and disobedient and, as to every good work, disapproved.
Tt 2:1But you, speak the things which are fitting to the healthy teaching.
Tt 2:2Exhort older men to be temperate, grave, of a sober mind, healthy in faith, in love, in endurance;
Tt 2:3Older women likewise to be in demeanor as befits those who engage in sacred things, not slanderers, nor enslaved by much wine, teachers of what is good,
Tt 2:4That they may train the young women to love their husbands, to love their children,
Tt 2:5To be of a sober mind, pure, workers at home, good, subject to their own husbands, that the word of God would not be blasphemed.
Tt 2:6The younger men likewise exhort to be of a sober mind,
Tt 2:7Concerning all things presenting yourself as a pattern of good works: in your teaching showing incorruption, gravity,
Tt 2:8Healthy speech that cannot be condemned, that he who opposes may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.
Tt 2:9Exhort slaves to be subject to their own masters in all things, to be well pleasing, not contradicting,
Tt 2:10Not pilfering, but showing all good faithfulness that they may adorn the teaching of our Savior God in all things.
Tt 2:11For the grace of God, bringing salvation to all men, has appeared,
Tt 2:12Training us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly and righteously and godly in the present age,
Tt 2:13Awaiting the blessed hope, even the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ,
Tt 2:14Who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all lawlessness and purify to Himself a particular people as His unique possession, zealous of good works.
Tt 2:15These things speak, and exhort and convict with all authority. Let no one despise you.
Tt 3:1Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready unto every good work,
Tt 3:2To slander no one, to be uncontentious, forbearing, showing all meekness toward all men.
Tt 3:3For we also were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving as slaves various lusts and pleasures, spending our lives in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another.
Tt 3:4But when the kindness and the love to man of our Savior God appeared,
Tt 3:5Not out of works in righteousness which we did but according to His mercy He saved us, through the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit,
Tt 3:6Whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
Tt 3:7In order that having been justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Tt 3:8Faithful is the word, and concerning these things I desire you to confidently affirm, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to maintain respectable works. These things are good and profitable to men.
Tt 3:9But avoid foolish questionings and genealogies and strifes and contentions about the law, for they are unprofitable and vain.
Tt 3:10A factious man, after a first and second admonition, refuse,
Tt 3:11Knowing that such a one is perverted and is sinning, though he is condemned by his own self.
Tt 3:12When I send Artemas to you or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there.
Tt 3:13Zenas the lawyer and Apollos send forward diligently that nothing may be lacking to them.
Tt 3:14And let those also who are ours learn to maintain respectable works for their necessary needs, that they may not be unfruitful.
Tt 3:15All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. Grace be with you all.
Pm 1:1Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy the brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow worker
Pm 1:2And to Apphia the sister and to Archippus our fellow soldier and to the church, which is in your house:
Pm 1:3Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Pm 1:4I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
Pm 1:5Hearing of your love and the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and to all the saints,
Pm 1:6That the fellowship of your faith may become effective in the full knowledge of every good thing which is in you for Christ.
Pm 1:7For I had much joy and encouragement over your love, because the inward parts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
Pm 1:8Therefore though I have much boldness in Christ to charge you what is fitting,
Pm 1:9Because of love I rather entreat, being such a one as Paul the aged and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus.
Pm 1:10I entreat you concerning my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus,
Pm 1:11Who formerly was useless to you but now is useful both to you and to me.
Pm 1:12Him I have sent back to you — him, that is, my very heart — 
Pm 1:13Whom I intended to keep with myself that on your behalf he might minister to me in the bonds of the gospel.
Pm 1:14But without your mind I did not want to do anything, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but voluntary.
Pm 1:15For perhaps for this reason he was separated from you for but an hour, that you might fully have him forever,
Pm 1:16No longer as a slave, but above a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Pm 1:17If then you hold me as a partner, receive him as myself.
Pm 1:18And if he has wronged you in anything or owes anything, charge that to my account.
Pm 1:19I, Paul, have written with my own hand: I will repay; not to say to you that you owe me even your own self besides.
Pm 1:20Yes, brother, may I have profit from you in the Lord; refresh my inward parts in Christ.
Pm 1:21Having confidence in your obedience, I have written to you, knowing that you will do even beyond the things that I say.
Pm 1:22And at the same time also prepare me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
Pm 1:23Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you;
Pm 1:24As do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers.
Pm 1:25The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
He 1:1God, having spoken of old in many portions and in many ways to the fathers in the prophets,
He 1:2Has at the last of these days spoken to us in the Son, whom He appointed Heir of all things, through whom also He made the universe;
He 1:3Who, being the effulgence of His glory and the impress of His substance and upholding and bearing all things by the word of His power, having made purification of sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
He 1:4Having become as much better than the angels as to have inherited a more distinguished name than they.
He 1:5For to which of the angels has He ever said, “You are My Son; this day have I begotten You”? And again, “I will be a Father to Him, and He will be a Son to Me”?
He 1:6And when He brings again the Firstborn into the inhabited earth, He says, “And let all the angels of God worship Him.”
He 1:7And of the angels He says, “Who makes His angels winds and His ministers a flame of fire”;
He 1:8But of the Son, “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom.
He 1:9You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of exultant joy above Your partners”;
He 1:10And, “You in the beginning, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of Your hands;
He 1:11They will perish, but You remain perpetually; and they all will become old like a garment,
He 1:12And like a mantle You will roll them up; like a garment they will also be changed; but You are the same, and Your years will not fail.”
He 1:13But to which of the angels has He ever said, “Sit at My right hand until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet”?
He 1:14Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth for service for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?
He 2:1Therefore we ought to give heed more abundantly to the things which have been heard lest perhaps we drift away.
He 2:2For if the word spoken through angels proved firm and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense,
He 2:3How shall we escape if we have neglected so great a salvation, which, having had its beginning in being spoken by the Lord, has been confirmed to us by those who heard,
He 2:4God bearing witness with them both by signs and wonders and by various works of power and by distributions of the Holy Spirit according to His will?
He 2:5For it was not to angels that He subjected the coming inhabited earth, concerning which we speak.
He 2:6But one has solemnly testified somewhere, saying, “What is man, that You bring him to mind? Or the son of man, that You care for him?
He 2:7You have made Him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned Him with glory and honor and have set Him over the works of Your hands;
He 2:8You have subjected all things under His feet.” For in subjecting all things to Him, He left nothing unsubject to Him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to Him,
He 2:9But we see Jesus, who was made a little inferior to the angels because of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God He might taste death on behalf of everything.
He 2:10For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things and through whom are all things, in leading many sons into glory, to make the Author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
He 2:11For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of One, for which cause He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
He 2:12Saying, “I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the church I will sing hymns of praise to You.”
He 2:13And again, “I will trust in Him.” And again, “Behold, I and the children whom God has given to Me.”
He 2:14Since therefore the children have shared in blood and flesh, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death He might destroy him who has the might of death, that is, the devil,
He 2:15And might release those who because of the fear of death through all their life were held in slavery.
He 2:16For assuredly it is not to angels that He gives help, but He gives help to the seed of Abraham.
He 2:17Hence He should have been made like His brothers in all things that He might become a merciful and faithful High Priest in the things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
He 2:18For being tempted in that which He Himself has suffered, He is able to help those who are being tempted.
He 3:1Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus,
He 3:2Who was faithful to Him who constituted Him, as also Moses was in all His house.
He 3:3For He has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by as much as He who built the house has more honor than the house.
He 3:4For every house is built by someone, but He who built all things is God.
He 3:5And Moses was faithful in all His house as a servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken later;
He 3:6But Christ was faithful as a Son over His house, whose house we are if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the boast of hope firm to the end.
He 3:7Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, “Today if you hear His voice,
He 3:8Do not harden your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of trial in the wilderness,
He 3:9Where your fathers tried Me by testing Me and saw My works for forty years.
He 3:10Therefore I was displeased with this generation, and I said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known My ways;
He 3:11As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!”
He 3:12Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief in falling away from the living God.
He 3:13But exhort one another each day, as long as it is called “today,” lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin — 
He 3:14For we have become partners of Christ, if indeed we hold fast the beginning of the assurance firm to the end — 
He 3:15While it is said, “Today if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as in the provocation.”
He 3:16For who provoked Him when they heard? Indeed was it not all who came out of Egypt by Moses?
He 3:17And with whom was He displeased for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
He 3:18And to whom did He swear that they should not enter into His rest, except to the disobedient?
He 3:19And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
He 4:1Let us fear therefore, lest, a promise being left of entering into His rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it.
He 4:2For indeed we have had the good news announced to us, even as they also; but the word heard did not profit them, not being mixed together with faith in those who heard.
He 4:3For we who have believed enter into the rest, even as He has said, “As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!” although the works of creation were completed from the foundation of the world.
He 4:4For He has spoken somewhere concerning the seventh day thus, “And God rested on the seventh day from all His works.”
He 4:5And in this place again, “They shall not enter into My rest!”
He 4:6Since therefore it remains that some should enter into it and those who formerly had the good news announced to them did not enter because of disobedience,
He 4:7He again designates a certain day, today, saying in David after so long a time, even as was said before, “Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts.”
He 4:8For if Joshua had brought them into rest, He would not have spoken concerning another day after these things.
He 4:9So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
He 4:10For he who has entered into His rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from His own.
He 4:11Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
He 4:12For the word of God is living and operative and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow, and able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
He 4:13And there is no creature that is not manifest before Him, but all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of Him to whom we are to give our account.
He 4:14Having therefore a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
He 4:15For we do not have a High Priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all respects like us, yet without sin.
He 4:16Let us therefore come forward with boldness to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace for timely help.
He 5:1For every high priest, being taken from among men, is established on behalf of men in the things pertaining to God that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
He 5:2He is able to exercise compassion toward the ignorant and erring since he also is encompassed with weakness;
He 5:3And because of it, he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
He 5:4And no one takes the honor upon himself, but only as he is called by God, just as Aaron also was.
He 5:5So also Christ did not glorify Himself in becoming a High Priest, but it was He who said to Him, “You are My Son; this day have I begotten You”;
He 5:6Even as also in another place He says, “You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.”
He 5:7This One, in the days of His flesh, having offered up both petitions and supplications with strong crying and tears to Him who was able to save Him out of death and having been heard because of His piety,
He 5:8Even though He was a Son, learned obedience from the things which He suffered.
He 5:9And having been perfected, He became to all those who obey Him the source of eternal salvation,
He 5:10Being addressed by God as a High Priest according to the order of Melchizedek;
He 5:11Concerning whom we have much to say that is also difficult to interpret since you have become dull of hearing.
He 5:12For when because of the time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of God are and have become those who have need of milk and not of solid food.
He 5:13For everyone who partakes of milk is inexperienced in the word of righteousness, for he is an infant;
He 5:14But solid food is for the full-grown, who because of practice have their faculties exercised for discriminating between both good and evil.
He 6:1Therefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us be brought on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith in God,
He 6:2Of the teaching of baptisms and of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
He 6:3And this we will do if God permits.
He 6:4For it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit
He 6:5And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
He 6:6And yet have fallen away, to renew themselves again unto repentance, crucifying again for themselves the Son of God and putting Him to open shame.
He 6:7For the earth, which drinks the rain which often comes upon it and produces vegetation suitable to those for whose sake also it is cultivated, partakes of blessing from God.
He 6:8But if it brings forth thorns and thistles, it is disapproved and near a curse, whose end is to be burned.
He 6:9But we are persuaded of better things concerning you, beloved, and things which belong to salvation, though we speak thus.
He 6:10For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward His name in having ministered to the saints and in ministering still.
He 6:11But we desire earnestly that each of you show the same diligence unto the full assurance of your hope until the end,
He 6:12That you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and long-suffering are inheriting the promises.
He 6:13For God, when He made the promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, swore by Himself,
He 6:14Saying, “Surely blessing, I will bless you; and multiplying, I will multiply you.”
He 6:15And thus when Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
He 6:16For men swear by the greater, and for all disputes among them an oath is final for confirmation.
He 6:17Therefore God, intending to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, interposed with an oath,
He 6:18In order that by two unchangeable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, we who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us,
He 6:19Which we have as an anchor of the soul, both secure and firm and which enters within the veil,
He 6:20Where the Forerunner, Jesus, has entered for us, having become forever a High Priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
He 7:1For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
He 7:2To whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all; first being interpreted king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace;
He 7:3Being without father, without mother, without genealogy; having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but likened to the Son of God, abides a priest perpetually.
He 7:4And consider how great this one was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the choice spoils.
He 7:5And they of the sons of Levi, who received the priestly service, have a commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is, from their brothers, though they have come forth from the loins of Abraham.
He 7:6But he whose genealogy is not counted from them has taken tithes from Abraham and has blessed him who has the promises.
He 7:7But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater.
He 7:8And here men, who die, receive tithes; but there, one of whom it is testified that he lives.
He 7:9And, so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, he who receives tithes, has been made to pay tithes,
He 7:10For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
He 7:11If indeed then perfection were through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what need was there still that a different Priest should arise according to the order of Melchizedek and that He should not be said to be according to the order of Aaron?
He 7:12For since the priesthood is transferred, of necessity there comes into being a transfer of law also.
He 7:13For He of whom these things are said belongs to a different tribe, from which no one has attended to the altar.
He 7:14For it is evident that our Lord has risen out of Judah, concerning which tribe Moses spoke nothing about priests.
He 7:15And it is still more abundantly evident since it is according to the likeness of Melchizedek that a different Priest arises,
He 7:16Who has been appointed not according to the law of a fleshy commandment but according to the power of an indestructible life.
He 7:17For it is testified, “You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.”
He 7:18For there is, on the one hand, the setting aside of the preceding commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness
He 7:19(For the law perfected nothing), and, on the other hand, the bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
He 7:20And inasmuch as He was not made a Priest without the taking of an oath
He 7:21(For they are appointed priests without the taking of an oath, but He, with the taking of an oath by Him who said to Him, “The Lord has sworn and will not regret it, You are a Priest forever”),
He 7:22By so much Jesus has also become the surety of a better covenant.
He 7:23And they are appointed priests many in number because death prevents them from continuing;
He 7:24But He, because He abides forever, has His priesthood unalterable.
He 7:25Hence also He is able to save to the uttermost those who come forward to God through Him, since He lives always to intercede for them.
He 7:26For such a High Priest was also fitting to us, holy, guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners and having become higher than the heavens,
He 7:27Who does not have daily need, as the high priests do, to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for those of the people; for this He did once for all when He offered up Himself.
He 7:28For the law establishes men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath, which was after the law, establishes the Son, perfected forever.
He 8:1Now in the things which are being said the chief point is this: We have such a High Priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
He 8:2A Minister of the holy places, even of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man.
He 8:3For every high priest is established for the offering of both gifts and sacrifices; hence it is necessary that this One also have something which He may offer.
He 8:4Now then if He were on earth, He would not be a Priest at all, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law,
He 8:5Who serve the example and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to complete the tabernacle; for, “See,” He said, “that you make all things according to the pattern that was shown to you in the mountain.”
He 8:6But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry inasmuch as He is also the Mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted upon better promises.
He 8:7For if that first covenant had been faultless, no place would have been sought for a second.
He 8:8For finding fault with them He says, “Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant upon the house of Israel and upon the house of Judah,
He 8:9Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not continue in My covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.
He 8:10For this is the covenant which I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws into their mind, and on their hearts I will inscribe them; and I will be God to them, and they will be a people to Me.
He 8:11And they shall by no means each teach his fellow citizen and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all will know Me from the little one to the great one among them.
He 8:12For I will be propitious to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins I shall by no means remember anymore.”
He 8:13In saying, A new covenant, He has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and growing decrepit is near to disappearing.
He 9:1Now then the first covenant also had ordinances of service, and its sanctuary was of this world.
He 9:2For a tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which were the lampstand and the table and the loaves that were set forth, which is called the Holy Place;
He 9:3And after the second veil, a tabernacle, which is called the Holy of Holies,
He 9:4Having a golden altar and the Ark of the Covenant covered about everywhere with gold, in which were the golden pot that had the manna and Aaron’s rod that budded and the tablets of the covenant,
He 9:5And above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the expiation cover, concerning which it is not now the time to speak in detail.
He 9:6Now these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle the priests enter continually, accomplishing their worship;
He 9:7But into the second, only the high priest enters, once a year and not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of ignorance of the people,
He 9:8The Holy Spirit thus making this clear, that the way of the Holy of Holies has not yet been manifested while the first tabernacle still has its standing,
He 9:9Which is a figure for the present time. According to this tabernacle both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are unable to perfect, according to conscience, him who worships,
He 9:10Consisting only of foods and drinks and various washings, being ordinances of the flesh, imposed until the time of setting things right.
He 9:11But Christ, having come as a High Priest of the good things that have come into being, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made by hands, that is, not of this creation,
He 9:12And not through the blood of goats and calves but through His own blood, entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, obtaining an eternal redemption.
He 9:13For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who are defiled sanctify to the purity of the flesh,
He 9:14How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
He 9:15And because of this He is the Mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those who have been called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
He 9:16For where there is a testament, the death of him who made the testament must of necessity be established.
He 9:17For a testament is confirmed in the case of the dead, since it never has force when he who made the testament is living.
He 9:18Hence neither was the first covenant initiated without blood;
He 9:19For when every commandment according to the law had been spoken by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll of the covenant itself and all the people,
He 9:20Saying, “This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded to you.”
He 9:21And both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service he sprinkled in like manner with the blood.
He 9:22And almost all things are purified by blood according to the law, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness.
He 9:23It was necessary therefore for the examples of the things in the heavens to be purified by these, but the heavenly things themselves, by better sacrifices than these.
He 9:24For Christ did not enter into a holy place made by hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself, to appear now before the face of God for us;
He 9:25Nor in order that He might offer Himself often, just as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies year by year by the blood of other creatures;
He 9:26Since then He would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the consummation of the ages He has been manifested for the putting away of sin through the sacrifice of Himself.
He 9:27And inasmuch as it is reserved for men to die once, and after this comes judgment,
He 9:28So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time to those who eagerly await Him, apart from sin, unto salvation.
He 10:1For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, not the image itself of the things, can never by the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, perfect those who draw near.
He 10:2Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, because those worshipping, having once been purified, would have no longer had the consciousness of sins?
He 10:3But in those sacrifices there is a bringing to mind of sins year by year;
He 10:4For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
He 10:5Therefore, coming into the world, He says, “Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me.
He 10:6In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not delight.
He 10:7Then I said, Behold, I have come (in the roll of the book it is written concerning Me) to do Your will, O God.”
He 10:8Saying above, “Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not desire nor delight in” (which are offered according to the law),
He 10:9He then has said, “Behold, I have come to do Your will.” He takes away the first that He may establish the second,
He 10:10By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
He 10:11And every priest stands daily, ministering and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never remove sins;
He 10:12But this One, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down forever on the right hand of God,
He 10:13Henceforth waiting until His enemies are made the footstool for His feet.
He 10:14For by one offering He has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
He 10:15And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after having said,
He 10:16“This is the covenant which I will covenant with them after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws upon their hearts, and upon their mind I will inscribe them,”
He 10:17He then says, “And their sins and their lawlessnesses I shall by no means remember anymore.”
He 10:18Now where forgiveness of these is, there is no longer an offering for sin.
He 10:19Having therefore, brothers, boldness for entering the Holy of Holies in the blood of Jesus,
He 10:20Which entrance He initiated for us as a new and living way through the veil, that is, His flesh,
He 10:21And having a great Priest over the house of God,
He 10:22Let us come forward to the Holy of Holies with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water.
He 10:23Let us hold fast the confession of our hope unwavering, for He who has promised is faithful;
He 10:24And let us consider one another so as to incite one another to love and good works,
He 10:25Not abandoning our own assembling together, as the custom with some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more as you see the day drawing near.
He 10:26For when we sin willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice of bulls and goats for sins,
He 10:27But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fervor of fire, which is to consume the adversaries.
He 10:28Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without compassion on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
He 10:29By how much do you think he will be thought worthy of worse punishment who has trampled underfoot the Son of God and has considered the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
He 10:30For we know Him who said, “Vengeance is Mine; I will repay”; and again, “The Lord will judge His people.”
He 10:31It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
He 10:32But call to mind the former days, in which, having been enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings;
He 10:33On one hand, being made a spectacle both in reproaches and in afflictions, and on the other, having become partakers with those who are treated the same.
He 10:34For you both sympathized with those in bonds and accepted with joy the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you yourselves have a better possession and one that abides.
He 10:35Do not cast away therefore your boldness, which has great reward.
He 10:36For you have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, you may obtain the promise.
He 10:37“For in yet a very little while the Coming One will come and will not delay.
He 10:38But My righteous one shall live by faith; and if he shrinks back, My soul does not delight in him.”
He 10:39But we are not of those who shrink back to ruin but of those who have faith to the gaining of the soul.
He 11:1Now faith is the substantiation of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
He 11:2For in this the elders have obtained a good testimony.
He 11:3By faith we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not come into being out of things which appear.
He 11:4By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous, God testifying to his gifts; and through faith, though he has died, he still speaks.
He 11:5By faith Enoch was translated so that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him. For before his translation he obtained the testimony that he had been well pleasing to God.
He 11:6But without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to Him, for he who comes forward to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.
He 11:7By faith Noah, having been divinely instructed concerning things not yet seen and being moved by pious fear, prepared an ark for the salvation of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
He 11:8By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive as an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
He 11:9By faith he dwelt as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a foreign land, making his home in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise;
He 11:10For he eagerly waited for the city which has the foundations, whose Architect and Builder is God.
He 11:11By faith also Sarah herself received power to conceive seed, even beyond the season of age, since she considered Him faithful who promised.
He 11:12Therefore also there were born of one, and that of him who had become dead, as many as even the stars of heaven in multitude and as the sand by the seashore innumerable.
He 11:13All these died in faith, not receiving the promises but seeing them from afar and joyfully greeting them and confessing that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.
He 11:14For those who say such things make it manifest that they seek after a country of their own.
He 11:15And if indeed they continued to remember that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return;
He 11:16But as it is, they long after a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.
He 11:17By faith Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac; indeed he who gladly received the promises was offering up his only begotten,
He 11:18Of whom it was said, “In Isaac shall your seed be called”;
He 11:19Counting that God was able to raise men even from the dead, from which he also received him back in figure.
He 11:20By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
He 11:21By faith Jacob, while he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped God, while leaning on the top of his staff.
He 11:22By faith Joseph, nearing his end, made mention of the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave orders concerning his bones.
He 11:23By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw that the child was lovely, and they did not fear the king’s decree.
He 11:24By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,
He 11:25Choosing rather to be ill-treated with the people of God than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin,
He 11:26Considering the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked away to the reward.
He 11:27By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he persevered as one seeing the unseen One.
He 11:28By faith he instituted the Passover and the pouring out of the blood so that the one destroying the firstborn would not touch them.
He 11:29By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, in which the Egyptians, while making the attempt, were swallowed up.
He 11:30By faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for a period of seven days.
He 11:31By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who were disobedient, since she had received the spies with peace.
He 11:32And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets,
He 11:33Who through faith overcame kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
He 11:34Quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong in weakness, became mighty in war, routed the armies of foreigners.
He 11:35Women received their dead by resurrection; and others were tortured to death, not accepting deliverance, in order that they might obtain a better resurrection.
He 11:36And still others underwent the trial of mockings and scourgings, even, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment.
He 11:37They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, they died by the murder of the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute, afflicted, ill-treated
He 11:38(Of whom the world was not worthy), wandering over deserts and mountains and in caves and holes of the earth.
He 11:39And these all, having obtained a good testimony through their faith, did not obtain the promise,
He 11:40Because God has provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect.
He 12:1Therefore let us also, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, put away every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us and run with endurance the race which is set before us,
He 12:2Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God.
He 12:3For compare Him who has endured such contradiction by sinners against Himself, so that you may not grow weary, fainting in your souls.
He 12:4You have not yet resisted unto blood, struggling against sin,
He 12:5And you have completely forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with sons, “My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when reproved by Him;
He 12:6For whom the Lord loves He disciplines, and He scourges every son whom He receives.”
He 12:7It is for discipline that you endure; God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the father does not discipline?
He 12:8But if you are without discipline, of which all sons have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons.
He 12:9Furthermore we have had the fathers of our flesh as discipliners and we respected them; shall we not much more be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live?
He 12:10For they disciplined for a few days as it seemed good to them; but He, for what is profitable that we might partake of His holiness.
He 12:11Now no discipline at the present time seems to be a matter of joy, but of grief; but afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been exercised by it.
He 12:12Therefore set straight the hands which hang down and the paralyzed knees,
He 12:13And make straight paths for your feet, that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather may be healed.
He 12:14Pursue peace with all men and sanctification, without which no one will see the Lord;
He 12:15Looking carefully lest anyone fall away from the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and through this many be defiled;
He 12:16Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one meal gave up his own birthright.
He 12:17For you know that also afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for repentance, even though he sought it with tears.
He 12:18For you have not come forward to a mountain which could be touched and which was set on fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind,
He 12:19And to the sound of a trumpet and to the voice of words, because of which those who heard entreated that no further word be spoken to them;
He 12:20For they could not bear that which was being commanded: “If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.”
He 12:21And so fearful was the sight, Moses said, “I am full of fear and trembling.”
He 12:22But you have come forward to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels, to the universal gathering;
He 12:23And to the church of the firstborn, who have been enrolled in the heavens; and to God, the Judge of all; and to the spirits of righteous men who have been made perfect;
He 12:24And to Jesus, the Mediator of a new covenant; and to the blood of sprinkling, which speaks something better than that of Abel.
He 12:25See that you do not refuse Him who speaks, for if those did not escape who refused Him who warned them upon the earth, much more we shall not escape who turn away from Him who warns from heaven,
He 12:26Whose voice at that time shook the earth but now has promised, saying, “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven.”
He 12:27And this word, “Yet once more,” shows clearly the removal of the things being shaken as being of things having been made, that the things which are not shaken may remain.
He 12:28Therefore receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us have grace, through which we may serve God well-pleasingly with piety and fear;
He 12:29For our God is also a consuming fire.
He 13:1Let brotherly love continue.
He 13:2Do not forget hospitality, for through this some, without knowing it, have entertained angels.
He 13:3Remember those who are imprisoned as bound with them, those who are ill-treated as being yourselves also likewise treated in body.
He 13:4Let marriage be held in honor among all, and the bed undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
He 13:5Let your way of life be without the love of money, being satisfied with the things which are at hand; for He Himself has said, “I shall by no means give you up, neither by any means shall I abandon you”;
He 13:6So that being of good courage, we say, “The Lord is my Helper, and I will not fear. What shall man do to me?”
He 13:7Remember the ones leading you, who have spoken to you the word of God; and considering the issue of their manner of life, imitate their faith.
He 13:8Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yes, even forever.
He 13:9Do not be carried away by various strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be confirmed by grace, not by the food of sacrifices, by which those who walk were not profited.
He 13:10We have an altar from which they who are serving the tabernacle have no right to eat.
He 13:11For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the Holy of Holies for sin by the high priest are burned up outside the camp.
He 13:12Therefore also Jesus, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate.
He 13:13Let us therefore go forth unto Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
He 13:14For we do not have here a remaining city, but we seek after the one to come.
He 13:15Through Him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of lips confessing His name.
He 13:16But do not forget doing good and sharing with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
He 13:17Obey the ones leading you and submit to them, for they watch over your souls as those who will render an account, that they may do this with joy and not groaning; for this would be unprofitable to you.
He 13:18Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring in all things to conduct ourselves honorably.
He 13:19And I exhort you much more to do this that I may be restored to you more quickly.
He 13:20Now the God of peace, He who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of an eternal covenant,
He 13:21Perfect you in every good work for the doing of His will, doing in us that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ; to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
He 13:22Now I beseech you, brothers, bear with the word of this exhortation, for indeed I have written to you in few words.
He 13:23Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you.
He 13:24Greet all the ones leading you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
He 13:25Grace be with you all. Amen.
Ja 1:1James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion: Rejoice!
Ja 1:2Count it all joy, my brothers, whenever you fall into various trials,
Ja 1:3Knowing that the proving of your faith works out endurance.
Ja 1:4And let endurance have its perfect work that you may be perfect and entire, lacking in nothing.
Ja 1:5But if any one of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and does not reproach, and it will be given to him.
Ja 1:6But let him ask in faith, doubting nothing, for he who doubts is like the surge of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed about.
Ja 1:7For that man must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
Ja 1:8He is a double-souled man, unstable in all his ways.
Ja 1:9And let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
Ja 1:10And the rich in his being brought low, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
Ja 1:11For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed; so also the rich man will fade away in his pursuits.
Ja 1:12Blessed is the man who endures trial, because when he has become approved by testing, he will receive the crown of life, which He promised to those who love Him.
Ja 1:13Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted of evil, and He Himself tempts no one.
Ja 1:14But each one is tempted when he is drawn away and enticed by his own lusts;
Ja 1:15Then the lust, having conceived, gives birth to sin; and the sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death.
Ja 1:16Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
Ja 1:17All good giving and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variation or shadow cast by turning.
Ja 1:18He brought us forth by the word of truth, purposing that we might be a kind of firstfruits of His creatures.
Ja 1:19You know this, my beloved brothers; but let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath;
Ja 1:20For the wrath of man does not accomplish the righteousness of God.
Ja 1:21Therefore putting away all filthiness and the abundance of malice, receive in meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
Ja 1:22And become doers of the word and not hearers only, who delude themselves.
Ja 1:23Because if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, this one is like a man considering in a mirror the face he was born with;
Ja 1:24For he considers himself and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of person he is.
Ja 1:25But he who looks into the perfect law, the law of freedom, and continues in it, becoming not a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in his doing.
Ja 1:26If anyone thinks himself to be religious and yet does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this one’s religion is vain.
Ja 1:27This is pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.
Ja 2:1My brothers, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with respect of persons.
Ja 2:2For if there comes into your synagogue a man with gold rings in splendid clothing, and there also comes in a poor man in filthy clothing,
Ja 2:3And you look upon the one wearing the splendid clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, and to the poor man you say, You stand there, or sit under my footstool;
Ja 2:4Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil reasonings?
Ja 2:5Listen, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which He promised to those who love Him?
Ja 2:6But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who oppress you and is it not they who drag you to the courts?
Ja 2:7Is it not they who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
Ja 2:8If indeed you are fulfilling the royal law according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” you do well;
Ja 2:9But if you respect persons, you commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
Ja 2:10For whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point has become guilty of all.
Ja 2:11For He who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
Ja 2:12So speak and so do as those who are to be judged by the law of freedom.
Ja 2:13For the judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy; mercy triumphs over judgment.
Ja 2:14What is the profit, my brothers, if anyone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
Ja 2:15If a brother or sister is without clothing and lacks daily food,
Ja 2:16And any one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, yet you do not give them the necessities of the body, what is the profit?
Ja 2:17So also faith, if it does not have works, is dead in itself.
Ja 2:18But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works; show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
Ja 2:19You believe that God is one. You do well; the demons also believe and shudder.
Ja 2:20But are you willing to know, O vain man, that faith without its works is useless?
Ja 2:21Was not Abraham our father justified by works in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar?
Ja 2:22You see that faith worked together with his works, and by these works faith was perfected.
Ja 2:23And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness”; and he was called the friend of God.
Ja 2:24You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith only.
Ja 2:25And in like manner was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works in that she received the messengers and sent them out by a different way?
Ja 2:26For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.
Ja 3:1Do not become many teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive greater judgment.
Ja 3:2For in many things we all stumble. If anyone does not stumble in word, this one is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body as well.
Ja 3:3Now if we put bridles into the mouths of horses that they would obey us, we direct their whole body as well.
Ja 3:4Behold, the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by rough winds, are directed by a very small rudder wherever the impulse of the pilot wills.
Ja 3:5So also the tongue is a little member yet boasts great things. Behold, how great a forest so little a fire ignites!
Ja 3:6And the tongue is a fire; the very world of unrighteousness, the tongue is set among our members as that which contaminates the whole body and sets on fire the course of life and is set on fire by Gehenna.
Ja 3:7For every nature, both of beasts and of birds, both of reptiles and of creatures of the sea, is tamed and has been tamed by the human nature;
Ja 3:8But the tongue no one among men is able to tame; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
Ja 3:9With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made according to the likeness of God.
Ja 3:10Out of the same mouth come forth blessing and cursing. These things, my brothers, ought not to be so.
Ja 3:11Does the spring, out of the same opening, gush forth the sweet and the bitter?
Ja 3:12Can a fig tree, my brothers, produce olives? Or a vine, figs? Neither can salt water produce sweet.
Ja 3:13Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good manner of life his works in meekness of wisdom.
Ja 3:14But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth.
Ja 3:15This wisdom is not that which descends from above, but is earthly, soulish, demonic.
Ja 3:16For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there disorder and every worthless practice are.
Ja 3:17But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, forbearing, compliant, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial, without hypocrisy.
Ja 3:18And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.
Ja 4:1Where do wars and fightings among you come from? Are they not from this, from your pleasures that war in your members?
Ja 4:2You lust and do not have; you murder and are jealous and are not able to obtain; you fight and make war. You do not have because you do not ask;
Ja 4:3You ask and do not receive because you ask evilly that you may spend it on your pleasures.
Ja 4:4Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever determines to be a friend of the world is constituted an enemy of God.
Ja 4:5Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain: The Spirit, whom He has caused to dwell in us, longs unto envy?
Ja 4:6But He gives greater grace; therefore it says, “God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.”
Ja 4:7Be subject therefore to God; but withstand the devil, and he will flee from you.
Ja 4:8Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-souled!
Ja 4:9Endure misery and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into dejection.
Ja 4:10Be humbled before the Lord, and He will exalt you.
Ja 4:11Do not speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
Ja 4:12One is Lawgiver and Judge, who is able to save and destroy. But who are you who judge your neighbor?
Ja 4:13Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into this or that city and spend a year there and do business and make a profit;
Ja 4:14Whereas you do not know the matter of tomorrow, what your life will be; for you are a vapor, which appears for a little while and then disappears.
Ja 4:15Instead you ought to say, If the Lord wills, we will both live and do this or that.
Ja 4:16But now you boast in your arrogance; all such boasting is evil.
Ja 4:17Therefore to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.
Ja 5:1Come now, you rich, weep, howling over your miseries, which are coming upon you!
Ja 5:2Your riches have rotted and your garments have become moth-eaten;
Ja 5:3Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a testimony against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have stored up treasure in the last days.
Ja 5:4Behold, the wages of the workmen who mowed your fields, which have been withheld by you, cry out; and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.
Ja 5:5You have lived luxuriously on the earth and have given yourselves to pleasure; you have nourished your hearts in a day of slaughter.
Ja 5:6You condemned, you murdered the righteous; he does not resist you.
Ja 5:7Therefore be long-suffering, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer eagerly awaits the precious fruit of the earth, exercising long-suffering over it until it receives the early and late rain.
Ja 5:8You also be long-suffering; establish your hearts because the coming of the Lord has drawn near.
Ja 5:9Do not complain, brothers, against one another lest you be judged. Behold, the Judge stands before the doors.
Ja 5:10As an example, brothers, of suffering evil and of long-suffering, take the prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord.
Ja 5:11Behold, we call those who endured blessed. You have heard of the endurance of Job, and you have seen his end from the Lord, that the Lord is very tenderhearted and compassionate.
Ja 5:12But above all things, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven nor by earth nor with any other oath; but let your yes be yes, and your no, no, lest you fall under judgment.
Ja 5:13Does anyone among you suffer evil? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.
Ja 5:14Is anyone among you ill? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
Ja 5:15And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up; and if he has committed sins, it will be forgiven him.
Ja 5:16Therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The petition of a righteous man avails much in its working.
Ja 5:17Elijah was a man of like feeling with us, and he earnestly prayed that it would not rain; and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
Ja 5:18And he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth sprouted forth with its fruit.
Ja 5:19My brothers, if any one among you is led astray from the truth and someone turns him back,
Ja 5:20Let him know that he who turns a sinner back from the error of his way will save that one’s soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.
1P 1:1Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the sojourners of the dispersion of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1P 1:2Chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit unto the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied.
1P 1:3Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His great mercy has regenerated us unto a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1P 1:4Unto an inheritance, incorruptible and undefiled and unfading, kept in the heavens for you,
1P 1:5Who are being guarded by the power of God through faith unto a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time;
1P 1:6In which time you exult, though for a little while at present, if it must be, you have been made sorrowful by various trials,
1P 1:7So that the proving of your faith, much more precious than of gold which perishes though it is proved by fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
1P 1:8Whom having not seen, you love; into whom though not seeing Him at present, yet believing, you exult with joy that is unspeakable and full of glory,
1P 1:9Receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
1P 1:10Concerning this salvation the prophets, who prophesied concerning the grace that was to come unto you, sought and searched diligently,
1P 1:11Searching into what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them was making clear, testifying beforehand of the sufferings of Christ and the glories after these.
1P 1:12To them it was revealed that not to themselves but to you they ministered these things, which have now been announced to you through those who preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, which things angels long to look into.
1P 1:13Therefore girding up the loins of your mind and being sober, set your hope perfectly on the grace being brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1P 1:14As children of obedience, do not be fashioned according to the former lusts in your ignorance;
1P 1:15But according to the Holy One who called you, you yourselves also be holy in all your manner of life;
1P 1:16Because it is written, “You shall be holy because I am holy.”
1P 1:17And if you call as Father the One who without respect of persons judges according to each one’s work, pass the time of your sojourning in fear,
1P 1:18Knowing that it was not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, that you were redeemed from your vain manner of life handed down from your fathers,
1P 1:19But with precious blood, as of a Lamb without blemish and without spot, the blood of Christ;
1P 1:20Who was foreknown before the foundation of the world but has been manifested in the last of times for your sake,
1P 1:21Who through Him believe into God, who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.
1P 1:22Since you have purified your souls by your obedience to the truth unto unfeigned brotherly love, love one another from a pure heart fervently,
1P 1:23Having been regenerated not of corruptible seed but of incorruptible, through the living and abiding word of God.
1P 1:24For “all flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass has withered, and the flower has fallen off,
1P 1:25But the word of the Lord abides forever.” And this is the word which has been announced to you as the gospel.
1P 2:1Therefore putting away all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings,
1P 2:2As newborn babes, long for the guileless milk of the word in order that by it you may grow unto salvation,
1P 2:3If you have tasted that the Lord is good.
1P 2:4Coming to Him, a living stone, rejected by men but with God chosen and precious,
1P 2:5You yourselves also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house into a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
1P 2:6For it is contained in Scripture: “Behold, I lay in Zion a cornerstone, chosen and precious; and he who believes on Him shall by no means be put to shame.”
1P 2:7To you therefore who believe is the preciousness; but to the unbelieving, “The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner,”
1P 2:8And, “A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense”; who stumble at the word, being disobedient, to which also they were appointed.
1P 2:9But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired for a possession, so that you may tell out the virtues of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light;
1P 2:10Who once were not a people but now are the people of God; who had not previously been shown mercy but have now been shown mercy.
1P 2:11Beloved, I entreat you as strangers and sojourners to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul,
1P 2:12Having your manner of life excellent among the Gentiles, so that in the matter concerning which they speak against you as evildoers they may, by your good works, as they see them with their own eyes, glorify God in the day of His visitation.
1P 2:13Be subject to every human institution for the Lord’s sake, whether to a king as being supreme,
1P 2:14Or to governors as being sent by him for vengeance on evildoers and praise of those who do good.
1P 2:15For so is the will of God, that by doing good you would muzzle the ignorance of foolish men;
1P 2:16As free, and yet not having freedom as a covering for evil, but as slaves of God.
1P 2:17Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
1P 2:18Household servants, be subject in all fear to your masters, not only to the good and forbearing but also to the crooked.
1P 2:19For this is grace, if anyone, because of a consciousness of God, bears sorrows by suffering unjustly.
1P 2:20For what glory is it if, while sinning and being buffeted, you endure? But if, while doing good and suffering, you endure, this is grace with God.
1P 2:21For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered on your behalf, leaving you a model so that you may follow in His steps;
1P 2:22Who committed no sin, nor was guile found in His mouth;
1P 2:23Who being reviled did not revile in return; suffering, He did not threaten but kept committing all to Him who judges righteously;
1P 2:24Who Himself bore up our sins in His body on the tree, in order that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness; by whose bruise you were healed.
1P 2:25For you were like sheep being led astray, but you have now returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
1P 3:1In like manner, wives, be subject to your own husbands, that even if any disobey the word, they will be gained without the word through the manner of life of their wives,
1P 3:2Seeing with their own eyes your pure manner of life in fear.
1P 3:3Let your adorning not be the outward plaiting of hair and putting on of gold or clothing with garments,
1P 3:4But the hidden man of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of a meek and quiet spirit, which is very costly in the sight of God.
1P 3:5For in this manner formerly the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being subject to their own husbands,
1P 3:6As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; whose children you have become, if you do good and do not fear any terror.
1P 3:7Husbands, in like manner dwell together with them according to knowledge, as with the weaker, female vessel, assigning honor to them as also to fellow heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered.
1P 3:8And finally be all of the same mind, sympathetic, loving the brothers, tenderhearted, humble-minded;
1P 3:9Not rendering evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary blessing one another, because you were called to this, that you might inherit blessing.
1P 3:10For “he who desires to love life and see good days, let him cause his tongue to cease from evil and his lips to speak no guile.
1P 3:11And let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it;
1P 3:12For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears incline to their petition; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”
1P 3:13And who will harm you if you become zealous for what is good?
1P 3:14But even if you suffer because of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not be afraid with fear from them, nor be troubled,
1P 3:15But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, being always ready for a defense to everyone who asks of you an account concerning the hope which is in you,
1P 3:16Yet with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, so that in the matter in which you are spoken against, those who revile your good manner of life in Christ may be put to shame.
1P 3:17For it is better, if the will of God should will it, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
1P 3:18For Christ also has suffered once for sins, the Righteous on behalf of the unrighteous, that He might bring you to God, on the one hand being put to death in the flesh, but on the other, made alive in the Spirit;
1P 3:19In which also He went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
1P 3:20Who had formerly disobeyed when the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared; entering into which, a few, that is, eight souls, were brought safely through by water.
1P 3:21Which water, as the antitype, also now saves you, that is, baptism, not a putting away of the filth of the flesh but the appeal of a good conscience unto God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
1P 3:22Who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being subjected to Him.
1P 4:1Since Christ therefore has suffered in the flesh, you also arm yourselves with the same mind (because he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin),
1P 4:2No longer to live the rest of the time in the flesh in the lusts of men, but in the will of God.
1P 4:3For the time which has passed is sufficient for you to have carried out the desire of the Gentiles, having gone on in licentiousness, lusts, debaucheries, carousings, drinking bouts, and lawless idolatries.
1P 4:4In this they think it strange that you are not running together with them into the same flood of dissoluteness, slandering you;
1P 4:5Who will render an account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
1P 4:6For unto this end the gospel was announced also to those who are now dead, that they might be judged in the flesh according to men but live in the spirit according to God.
1P 4:7But the end of all things has drawn near. Therefore be sober-minded and be sober unto prayers.
1P 4:8Above all, have fervent love among yourselves, because love covers a multitude of sins.
1P 4:9Be hospitable to one another without murmuring,
1P 4:10Each one, as he has received a gift, ministering it among yourselves as good stewards of the varied grace of God.
1P 4:11If anyone speaks, as speaking oracles of God; if anyone ministers, as ministering out of the strength which God supplies; that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
1P 4:12Beloved, do not think that the fiery ordeal among you, coming to you for a trial, is strange, as if it were a strange thing happening to you;
1P 4:13But inasmuch as you share in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also at the revelation of His glory you may rejoice exultingly.
1P 4:14If you are reproached in the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.
1P 4:15For let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler into others’ affairs;
1P 4:16But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in this name.
1P 4:17For it is time for the judgment to begin from the house of God; and if first from us, what will be the end of those who disobey the gospel of God?
1P 4:18And if the righteous man is saved only with difficulty, where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?
1P 4:19So then let those also who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls in well-doing to a faithful Creator.
1P 5:1Therefore the elders among you I exhort, who am a fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, who am also a partaker of the glory to be revealed:
1P 5:2Shepherd the flock of God among you, overseeing not under compulsion but willingly, according to God; not by seeking gain through base means but eagerly;
1P 5:3Nor as lording it over your allotments but by becoming patterns of the flock.
1P 5:4And when the Chief Shepherd is manifested, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
1P 5:5In like manner, younger men, be subject to elders; and all of you gird yourselves with humility toward one another, because God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.
1P 5:6Therefore be humbled under the mighty hand of God that He may exalt you in due time,
1P 5:7Casting all your anxiety on Him because it matters to Him concerning you.
1P 5:8Be sober; watch. Your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walks about, seeking someone to devour.
1P 5:9Him withstand, being firm in your faith, knowing that the same sufferings are being accomplished among your brotherhood in the world.
1P 5:10But the God of all grace, He who has called you into His eternal glory in Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little while, will Himself perfect, establish, strengthen, and ground you.
1P 5:11To Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
1P 5:12Through Silvanus, the faithful brother, as I account him, I have written to you briefly, exhorting and testifying fully that this is the true grace of God; enter into this grace and stand in it.
1P 5:13The co-chosen in Babylon and Mark my son greet you.
1P 5:14Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to you all who are in Christ.
2P 1:1Simon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have been allotted faith equally precious as ours in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ:
2P 1:2Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the full knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord;
2P 1:3Seeing that His divine power has granted to us all things which relate to life and godliness, through the full knowledge of Him who has called us by His own glory and virtue,
2P 1:4Through which He has granted to us precious and exceedingly great promises that through these you might become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption which is in the world by lust.
2P 1:5And for this very reason also, adding all diligence, supply bountifully in your faith virtue; and in virtue, knowledge;
2P 1:6And in knowledge, self-control; and in self-control, endurance; and in endurance, godliness;
2P 1:7And in godliness, brotherly love; and in brotherly love, love.
2P 1:8For these things, existing in you and abounding, constitute you neither idle nor unfruitful unto the full knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2P 1:9For he in whom these things are not present is blind, being shortsighted, having forgotten the cleansing of his past sins.
2P 1:10Therefore, brothers, be the more diligent to make your calling and selection firm, for doing these things you shall by no means ever stumble.
2P 1:11For in this way the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly and bountifully supplied to you.
2P 1:12Therefore I will be ready always to remind you concerning these things, even though you know them and have been established in the present truth.
2P 1:13And I consider it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by a reminder,
2P 1:14Knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle is imminent, even as also our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me.
2P 1:15Moreover I will also be diligent that you may be able, after my exodus, to bring these things to mind at all times.
2P 1:16For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we became eyewitnesses of that One’s majesty.
2P 1:17For He received from God the Father honor and glory, a voice such as this being borne to Him by the magnificent glory: This is My Son, My Beloved, in whom I delight.
2P 1:18And this voice we heard being borne out of heaven while we were with Him in the holy mountain.
2P 1:19And we have the prophetic word made more firm, to which you do well to give heed as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts;
2P 1:20Knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of one’s own interpretation;
2P 1:21For no prophecy was ever borne by the will of man, but men spoke from God while being borne by the Holy Spirit.
2P 2:1But there arose also false prophets among the people, as also among you there will be false teachers, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
2P 2:2And many will follow their licentiousness, because of whom the way of the truth will be reviled.
2P 2:3And in covetousness, with fabricated words, they will make merchandise of you, for whom the judgment of old is not idle, and their destruction does not slumber.
2P 2:4For if God did not spare the angels who sinned but delivered them to gloomy pits, having cast them down to Tartarus, they being kept for judgment;
2P 2:5And did not spare the ancient world but guarded Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when He brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2P 2:6And having reduced to ashes the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, condemned them to ruin, having set them as an example to those who intend to live an ungodly life,
2P 2:7And rescued righteous Lot, who had been oppressed by the licentious manner of life of the lawless
2P 2:8(For that righteous man, who settled down among them, in seeing and hearing tormented his righteous soul day after day with their lawless works);
2P 2:9The Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of trial and how to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment,
2P 2:10And especially those who go after the flesh in the lust for defilement and despise lordship. Daring, self-willed, they do not tremble while reviling dignities;
2P 2:11Whereas angels, though they are greater in strength and power, do not bring a reviling judgment against them before the Lord.
2P 2:12But these, like animals without reason, born natural for capture and destruction, reviling in things of which they are ignorant, will also in their corrupting of others be destroyed;
2P 2:13Suffering unrighteousness as the wages of unrighteousness; considering luxury in the day to be pleasure; spots and blemishes, reveling in their deceits while feasting together with you;
2P 2:14Having eyes full of adultery and not ceasing from sin; enticing unstable souls, having a heart exercised for covetousness, children of curse.
2P 2:15Forsaking the straight way, they have gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness
2P 2:16But had reproof for his own transgression: a dumb beast of burden, uttering with a man’s voice, restrained the madness of the prophet.
2P 2:17These are springs without water and mists driven by a storm, for whom the gloom of darkness is kept.
2P 2:18For uttering great swelling words of vanity, they entice by lusts of the flesh, with licentiousness, those who are barely escaping from them who live in error;
2P 2:19Promising freedom to them, while they themselves are slaves of corruption; for by whom anyone has been defeated, by this one he has been enslaved.
2P 2:20For if, having escaped the defilements of the world by the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ but having again been entangled in these, they are defeated, the last state has become worse for them than the first.
2P 2:21For it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than, knowing it, to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.
2P 2:22It has happened to them according to the true proverb: The dog has turned to its own vomit, and the washed sow to wallowing in the mud.
2P 3:1This second letter, beloved, I now write to you; in them both I stir up your sincere mind with a reminder,
2P 3:2So that you would remember the words spoken before by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior preached by your apostles;
2P 3:3Knowing this first, that in the last of days mockers will come with mocking, going on according to their own lusts
2P 3:4And saying, Where is the promise of His coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue in this way from the beginning of creation.
2P 3:5For this escapes them by their own choosing, that by the word of God the heavens were of old and the earth was compacted out of water and through water,
2P 3:6Through which the world then, being flooded with water, perished.
2P 3:7But the heavens and the earth now, by the same word, have been stored up for fire, being kept unto the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
2P 3:8But do not let this one thing escape you, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years and a thousand years like one day.
2P 3:9The Lord does not delay regarding the promise, as some count delay, but is long-suffering toward you, not intending that any perish but that all advance to repentance.
2P 3:10But the day of the Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements, burning with intense heat, will be dissolved, and the earth and the works in it will be burned up.
2P 3:11Since all these things are to be thus dissolved, what kind of persons ought you to be in holy manner of life and godliness,
2P 3:12Expecting and hastening the coming of the day of God, on account of which the heavens, being on fire, will be dissolved, and the elements, burning with intense heat, are to be melted away?
2P 3:13But according to His promise we are expecting new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells.
2P 3:14Therefore, beloved, since you expect these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace without spot and without blemish;
2P 3:15And count the long-suffering of our Lord to be salvation, even as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you,
2P 3:16As also in all his letters, speaking in them concerning these things, in which some things are hard to understand, which the unlearned and unstable twist, as also the rest of the Scriptures, to their own destruction.
2P 3:17You therefore, beloved, since you know these things beforehand, be on your guard lest being carried away by the error of the lawless, you fall from your own steadfastness.
2P 3:18But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and unto the day of eternity. Amen.
1J 1:1That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we beheld and our hands handled, concerning the Word of life
1J 1:2(And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
1J 1:3That which we have seen and heard we report also to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ.
1J 1:4And these things we write that our joy may be made full.
1J 1:5And this is the message which we have heard from Him and announce to you, that God is light and in Him is no darkness at all.
1J 1:6If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and are not practicing the truth;
1J 1:7But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from every sin.
1J 1:8If we say that we do not have sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1J 1:9If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1J 1:10If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word is not in us.
1J 2:1My little children, these things I write to you that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous;
1J 2:2And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for those of the whole world.
1J 2:3And in this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments.
1J 2:4He who says, I know Him, and does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in this one;
1J 2:5But whoever keeps His word, truly in this one the love of God has been perfected. In this we know that we are in Him.
1J 2:6He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk even as He walked.
1J 2:7Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word which you heard.
1J 2:8Yet again a new commandment I am writing to you, which is true in Him and in you because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.
1J 2:9He who says he is in the light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now.
1J 2:10He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause of stumbling in him;
1J 2:11But he who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
1J 2:12I write to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you because of His name.
1J 2:13I write to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, young children, because you know the Father.
1J 2:14I have written to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong and the word of God abides in you and you have overcome the evil one.
1J 2:15Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in him;
1J 2:16Because all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vainglory of life, is not of the Father but is of the world.
1J 2:17And the world is passing away, and its lust, but he who does the will of God abides forever.
1J 2:18Young children, it is the last hour; and even as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come; whereby we know that it is the last hour.
1J 2:19They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out that they might be manifested that they all are not of us.
1J 2:20And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know.
1J 2:21I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it and because no lie is of the truth.
1J 2:22Who is the liar if not he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son.
1J 2:23Everyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who confesses the Son has the Father also.
1J 2:24As for you, that which you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you. If that which you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father.
1J 2:25And this is the promise which He Himself promised us, the eternal life.
1J 2:26These things I have written to you concerning those who lead you astray.
1J 2:27And as for you, the anointing which you have received from Him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone teach you; but as His anointing teaches you concerning all things and is true and is not a lie, and even as it has taught you, abide in Him.
1J 2:28And now, little children, abide in Him, so that if He is manifested, we may have boldness and not be put to shame from Him at His coming.
1J 2:29If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness also has been begotten of Him.
1J 3:1Behold what manner of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and we are. Because of this the world does not know us, because it did not know Him.
1J 3:2Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been manifested what we will be. We know that if He is manifested, we will be like Him because we will see Him even as He is.
1J 3:3And everyone who has this hope set on Him purifies himself, even as He is pure.
1J 3:4Everyone who practices sin practices lawlessness also, and sin is lawlessness.
1J 3:5And you know that He was manifested that He might take away sins; and sin is not in Him.
1J 3:6Everyone who abides in Him does not sin; everyone who sins has not seen Him or known Him.
1J 3:7Little children, let no one lead you astray; he who practices righteousness is righteous, even as He is righteous;
1J 3:8He who practices sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil.
1J 3:9Everyone who has been begotten of God does not practice sin, because His seed abides in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been begotten of God.
1J 3:10In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest. Everyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, neither he who does not love his brother.
1J 3:11For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another,
1J 3:12Not as Cain was of the evil one and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his works were evil, and his brother’s, righteous.
1J 3:13Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you.
1J 3:14We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. He who does not love abides in death.
1J 3:15Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
1J 3:16In this we know love, that He laid down His life on our behalf, and we ought to lay down our lives on behalf of the brothers.
1J 3:17But whoever has the livelihood of the world and sees that his brother has need and shuts up his affections from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
1J 3:18Little children, let us not love in word nor in tongue but in deed and truthfulness.
1J 3:19And in this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will persuade our heart before Him,
1J 3:20Because if our heart blames us, it is because God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
1J 3:21Beloved, if our heart does not blame us, we have boldness toward God;
1J 3:22And whatever we ask we receive from Him because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight.
1J 3:23And this is His commandment, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another, even as He gave a commandment to us.
1J 3:24And he who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. And in this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He gave to us.
1J 4:1Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but prove the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
1J 4:2In this you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit which confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God,
1J 4:3And every spirit which does not confess Jesus is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming and now is already in the world.
1J 4:4You are of God, little children; and you have overcome them because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world.
1J 4:5They are of the world; therefore they speak out of the world, and the world hears them.
1J 4:6We are of God; he who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. From this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of deception.
1J 4:7Beloved, let us love one another, because love is of God, and everyone who loves has been begotten of God and knows God.
1J 4:8He who does not love has not known God, because God is love.
1J 4:9In this the love of God was manifested among us, that God sent His only begotten Son into the world that we might have life and live through Him.
1J 4:10Herein is love, not that we have loved God but that He loved us and sent His Son as a propitiation for our sins.
1J 4:11Beloved, if God has loved us in this way, we also ought to love one another.
1J 4:12No one has beheld God at any time; if we love one another, God abides in us, and His love is perfected in us.
1J 4:13In this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, that He has given to us of His Spirit.
1J 4:14And we have beheld and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
1J 4:15Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God.
1J 4:16And we know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God abides in him.
1J 4:17In this has love been perfected with us, that we may have boldness in the day of the judgment because even as He is, so also are we in this world.
1J 4:18There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear because fear has punishment, and he who fears has not been perfected in love.
1J 4:19We love because He first loved us.
1J 4:20If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen.
1J 4:21And this commandment we have from Him, that he who loves God love his brother also.
1J 5:1Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten of God, and everyone who loves Him who has begotten loves him also who has been begotten of Him.
1J 5:2In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments.
1J 5:3For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome.
1J 5:4For everything that has been begotten of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory which has overcome the world — our faith.
1J 5:5And who is he who overcomes the world except him who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
1J 5:6This is He who came through water and blood, Jesus Christ; not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood; and the Spirit is He who testifies, because the Spirit is the reality.
1J 5:7For there are three who testify,
1J 5:8The Spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are unto the one thing.
1J 5:9If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, because this is the testimony of God that He has testified concerning His Son.
1J 5:10He who believes into the Son of God has the testimony in himself; he who does not believe God has made Him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony which God has testified concerning His Son.
1J 5:11And this is the testimony, that God gave to us eternal life and this life is in His Son.
1J 5:12He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
1J 5:13I have written these things to you that you may know that you have eternal life, to you who believe into the name of the Son of God.
1J 5:14And this is the boldness which we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
1J 5:15And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him.
1J 5:16If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask and he will give life to him, to those sinning not unto death. There is a sin unto death; I do not say that he should make request concerning that.
1J 5:17All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not unto death.
1J 5:18We know that everyone who is begotten of God does not sin, but he who has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
1J 5:19We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the evil one.
1J 5:20And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we might know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
1J 5:21Little children, guard yourselves from idols.
2J 1:1The elder to the chosen lady and to her children, whom I love in truthfulness, and not only I but also all those who know the truth,
2J 1:2For the sake of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever:
2J 1:3Grace, mercy, peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
2J 1:4I rejoiced greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, even as we received commandment from the Father.
2J 1:5And now I ask you, lady, not as writing a new commandment to you but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another.
2J 1:6And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, even as you heard from the beginning, that you walk in love.
2J 1:7For many deceivers went out into the world, those who do not confess Jesus Christ coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.
2J 1:8Look to yourselves that you do not lose the things which we wrought, but that you may receive a full reward.
2J 1:9Everyone who goes beyond and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God; he who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son.
2J 1:10If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not say to him, Rejoice!
2J 1:11For he who says to him, Rejoice, shares in his evil works.
2J 1:12Though I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I am hoping to be with you and to speak face to face that our joy may be made full.
2J 1:13The children of your chosen sister greet you.
3J 1:1The elder to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truthfulness.
3J 1:2Beloved, concerning all things I wish that you may prosper and be in health, even as your soul prospers.
3J 1:3For I rejoiced greatly at the brothers’ coming and testifying to your steadfastness in the truth, even as you walk in truth.
3J 1:4I have no greater joy than these things, that I hear that my children are walking in the truth.
3J 1:5Beloved, you do faithfully in whatever you have wrought for the brothers, and this for strangers,
3J 1:6Who testified to your love before the church; whom you will do well to send forward in a manner worthy of God;
3J 1:7For on behalf of the Name they went out, taking nothing from the Gentiles.
3J 1:8We therefore ought to support such ones that we may become fellow workers in the truth.
3J 1:9I wrote something to the church; but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not receive us.
3J 1:10For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his works which he does, babbling against us with evil words; and not being satisfied with these, neither does he himself receive the brothers, and those intending to do so he forbids and casts out of the church.
3J 1:11Beloved, do not imitate the evil, but the good. He who does good is of God; he who does evil has not seen God.
3J 1:12To Demetrius testimony has been borne by all and by the truth itself; and we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true.
3J 1:13I had many things to write to you, but I do not want to write to you with ink and pen;
3J 1:14But I hope to see you shortly, and we will speak face to face. Peace to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name.
Jd 1:1Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ and a brother of James, to those who are called, beloved in God the Father, and kept by Jesus Christ:
Jd 1:2Mercy to you and peace and love be multiplied.
Jd 1:3Beloved, while using all diligence to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you and exhort you to earnestly contend for the faith once for all delivered to the saints.
Jd 1:4For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who of old have been written of beforehand for this judgment, ungodly men, perverting the grace of our God into licentiousness and denying our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
Jd 1:5But I intend to remind you, though you know all things once for all, that the Lord, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe;
Jd 1:6And angels who did not keep their own principality but abandoned their own dwelling place, He has kept in eternal bonds under gloom for the judgment of the great day;
Jd 1:7How Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, who in like manner with these gave themselves over to fornication and went after different flesh, are set forth as an example, undergoing the penalty of eternal fire.
Jd 1:8Nevertheless in like manner these dreamers also defile the flesh and despise lordship and revile dignities.
Jd 1:9But Michael the archangel, when he contended with the devil and disputed concerning the body of Moses, did not dare to bring a reviling judgment against him but said, The Lord rebuke you.
Jd 1:10But these revile the things that they do not know; and the things that they understand naturally, like animals without reason, in these they are being corrupted.
Jd 1:11Woe to them! For they have gone in the way of Cain and have rushed out in the error of Balaam for reward and have perished in the rebellion of Korah.
Jd 1:12These are the hidden reefs in your love feasts, feasting together with you without fear, shepherding themselves; waterless clouds being carried off by winds; autumn trees without fruit, having died twice, rooted up;
Jd 1:13Wild waves of the sea, foaming out their own shames; wandering stars, for whom the gloom of darkness is kept for eternity.
Jd 1:14And Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied also of these, saying, Behold, the Lord came with myriads of His saints
Jd 1:15To execute judgment against all and to convict all the ungodly concerning all their ungodly works which they have done in ungodliness, and concerning all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.
Jd 1:16These are murmurers, complainers, going on according to their own lusts; and their mouth speaks great swelling things, flattering persons for the sake of advantage.
Jd 1:17But you, beloved, remember the words spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Jd 1:18That they said to you, In the last time there will be mockers, going on according to their own lusts for ungodliness.
Jd 1:19These are those who make divisions, soulish, having no spirit.
Jd 1:20But you, beloved, building up yourselves upon your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
Jd 1:21Keep yourselves in the love of God, awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.
Jd 1:22And on some have mercy, on those who are wavering;
Jd 1:23Save them by snatching them out of the fire. On others have mercy in fear, hating even the inner garment spotted from the flesh.
Jd 1:24But to Him who is able to guard you from stumbling and to set you before His glory without blemish in exultation,
Jd 1:25To the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory, majesty, might, and authority before all time and now and unto all eternity. Amen.
Rv 1:1The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave to Him to show to His slaves the things that must quickly take place; and He made it known by signs, sending it by His angel to His slave John,
Rv 1:2Who testified the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, even all that he saw.
Rv 1:3Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and keep the things written in it, for the time is near.
Rv 1:4John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from Him who is and who was and who is coming, and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne,
Rv 1:5And from Jesus Christ, the faithful Witness, the Firstborn of the dead, and the Ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who loves us and has released us from our sins by His blood
Rv 1:6And made us a kingdom, priests to His God and Father, to Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
Rv 1:7Behold, He comes with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced Him; and all the tribes of the land will mourn over Him. Yes, amen.
Rv 1:8I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, He who is and who was and who is coming, the Almighty.
Rv 1:9I John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and endurance in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
Rv 1:10I was in spirit on the Lord’s Day and heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet,
Rv 1:11Saying, What you see write in a scroll and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamos and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.
Rv 1:12And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me; and when I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands,
Rv 1:13And in the midst of the lampstands One like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment reaching to the feet, and girded about at the breasts with a golden girdle.
Rv 1:14And His head and hair were as white as white wool, as snow; and His eyes were like a flame of fire;
Rv 1:15And His feet were like shining bronze, as having been fired in a furnace; and His voice was like the sound of many waters.
Rv 1:16And He had in His right hand seven stars; and out of His mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword; and His face shone as the sun shines in its power.
Rv 1:17And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet as dead; and He placed His right hand on me, saying, Do not fear; I am the First and the Last
Rv 1:18And the living One; and I became dead, and behold, I am living forever and ever; and I have the keys of death and of Hades.
Rv 1:19Write therefore the things which you have seen and the things which are and the things which are about to take place after these things.
Rv 1:20The mystery of the seven stars which you saw upon My right hand and the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars are the messengers of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
Rv 2:1To the messenger of the church in Ephesus write: These things says He who holds the seven stars in His right hand, He who walks in the midst of the seven golden lampstands:
Rv 2:2I know your works and your labor and your endurance and that you cannot bear evil men; and you have tried those who call themselves apostles and are not, and have found them to be false;
Rv 2:3And you have endurance and have borne all things because of My name and have not grown weary.
Rv 2:4But I have one thing against you, that you have left your first love.
Rv 2:5Remember therefore where you have fallen from and repent and do the first works; but if not, I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its place, unless you repent.
Rv 2:6But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Rv 2:7He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of God.
Rv 2:8And to the messenger of the church in Smyrna write: These things says the First and the Last, who became dead and lived again:
Rv 2:9I know your tribulation and poverty (but you are rich) and the slander from those who call themselves Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Rv 2:10Do not fear the things that you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison that you may be tried, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.
Rv 2:11He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall by no means be hurt of the second death.
Rv 2:12And to the messenger of the church in Pergamos write: These things says He who has the sharp two-edged sword:
Rv 2:13I know where you dwell, where Satan’s throne is; and you hold fast My name and have not denied My faith, even in the days of Antipas, My witness, My faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
Rv 2:14But I have a few things against you, that you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat idol sacrifices and to commit fornication.
Rv 2:15In the same way you also have some who hold in like manner the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Rv 2:16Repent therefore; but if not, I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war with them with the sword of My mouth.
Rv 2:17He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, and to him I will give a white stone, and upon the stone a new name written, which no one knows except him who receives it.
Rv 2:18And to the messenger of the church in Thyatira write: These things says the Son of God, He who has eyes like a flame of fire, and His feet are like shining bronze:
Rv 2:19I know your works and love and faith and service and your endurance and that your last works are more than the first.
Rv 2:20But I have something against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, she who calls herself a prophetess and teaches and leads My slaves astray to commit fornication and to eat idol sacrifices.
Rv 2:21And I gave her time that she might repent, and she is not willing to repent of her fornication.
Rv 2:22Behold, I cast her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her, into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works;
Rv 2:23And her children I will kill with death; and all the churches will know that I am He who searches the inward parts and the hearts; and I will give to each one of you according to your works.
Rv 2:24But I say to you — the rest in Thyatira, as many as do not have this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they say — I put no other burden upon you;
Rv 2:25Nevertheless what you have hold fast until I come.
Rv 2:26And he who overcomes and he who keeps My works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations;
Rv 2:27And he will shepherd them with an iron rod, as vessels of pottery are broken in pieces, as I also have received from My Father;
Rv 2:28And to him I will give the morning star.
Rv 2:29He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Rv 3:1And to the messenger of the church in Sardis write: These things says He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name that you are living, and yet you are dead.
Rv 3:2Become watchful and establish the things which remain, which were about to die; for I have found none of your works completed before My God.
Rv 3:3Remember therefore how you have received and heard, and keep it and repent. If therefore you will not watch, I will come as a thief, and you shall by no means know at what hour I will come upon you.
Rv 3:4But you have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments, and they will walk with Me in white because they are worthy.
Rv 3:5He who overcomes will be clothed thus, in white garments, and I shall by no means erase his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels.
Rv 3:6He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Rv 3:7And to the messenger of the church in Philadelphia write: These things says the Holy One, the true One, the One who has the key of David, the One who opens and no one will shut, and shuts and no one opens:
Rv 3:8I know your works; behold, I have put before you an opened door which no one can shut, because you have a little power and have kept My word and have not denied My name.
Rv 3:9Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan, those who call themselves Jews and are not, but lie — behold, I will cause them to come and fall prostrate before your feet and to know that I have loved you.
Rv 3:10Because you have kept the word of My endurance, I also will keep you out of the hour of trial, which is about to come on the whole inhabited earth, to try them who dwell on the earth.
Rv 3:11I come quickly; hold fast what you have that no one take your crown.
Rv 3:12He who overcomes, him I will make a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall by no means go out anymore, and I will write upon him the name of My God and the name of the city of My God, the New Jerusalem, which descends out of heaven from My God, and My new name.
Rv 3:13He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Rv 3:14And to the messenger of the church in Laodicea write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the beginning of the creation of God:
Rv 3:15I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot; I wish that you were cold or hot.
Rv 3:16So, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I am about to spew you out of My mouth.
Rv 3:17Because you say, I am wealthy and have become rich and have need of nothing, and do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked,
Rv 3:18I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined by fire that you may be rich, and white garments that you may be clothed and that the shame of your nakedness may not be manifested, and eyesalve to anoint your eyes that you may see.
Rv 3:19As many as I love I reprove and discipline; be zealous therefore and repent.
Rv 3:20Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if anyone hears My voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him and dine with him and he with Me.
Rv 3:21He who overcomes, to him I will give to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat with My Father on His throne.
Rv 3:22He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Rv 4:1After these things I saw, and behold, a door opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard was like a trumpet speaking with me, saying, Come up here, and I will show you the things that must take place after these things.
Rv 4:2Immediately I was in spirit; and behold, there was a throne set in heaven, and upon the throne there was One sitting;
Rv 4:3And He who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance, and there was a rainbow around the throne like an emerald in appearance.
Rv 4:4And around the throne there were twenty-four thrones, and upon the thrones twenty-four elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and upon their heads golden crowns.
Rv 4:5And out of the throne come forth lightnings and voices and thunders. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God;
Rv 4:6And before the throne there was as it were a glassy sea like crystal; and in the midst of the throne and around the throne, there were four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind.
Rv 4:7And the first living creature was like a lion, and the second living creature like a calf, and the third living creature had a face like that of a man, and the fourth living creature was like a flying eagle.
Rv 4:8And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings apiece, are full of eyes around and within; and they have no rest day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God the Almighty, who was and who is and who is coming.
Rv 4:9And when the four living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits upon the throne, to Him who lives forever and ever,
Rv 4:10The twenty-four elders will fall before Him who sits upon the throne and worship Him who lives forever and ever; and they will cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
Rv 4:11You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, for You have created all things, and because of Your will they were, and were created.
Rv 5:1And I saw on the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed up with seven seals.
Rv 5:2And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?
Rv 5:3And no one in heaven nor on the earth nor under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it.
Rv 5:4And I wept much because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or look into it.
Rv 5:5And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome so that He may open the scroll and its seven seals.
Rv 5:6And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders a Lamb standing as having just been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
Rv 5:7And He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne.
Rv 5:8And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell before the Lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which bowls are the prayers of the saints.
Rv 5:9And they sing a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for You were slain and have purchased for God by Your blood men out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
Rv 5:10And have made them a kingdom and priests to our God; and they will reign on the earth.
Rv 5:11And I saw, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living creatures and of the elders, and their number was ten thousands of ten thousands and thousands of thousands,
Rv 5:12Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who has been slain to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
Rv 5:13And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them, I heard saying, To Him who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.
Rv 5:14And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.
Rv 6:1And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying like the sound of thunder, Come.
Rv 6:2And I saw, and behold, a white horse, and he who sits on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer.
Rv 6:3And when He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come.
Rv 6:4And I saw, and behold, another horse, a red one, went forth; and to him who sits on it, to him authority was given to take peace from the earth, and that men should slay one another; and to him a great sword was given.
Rv 6:5And when He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come. And I saw, and behold, a black horse; and he who sits on it had a balance in his hand.
Rv 6:6And I heard as it were a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, A choenix of wheat for a denarius and three choenixes of barley for a denarius; and do not harm the oil and the wine.
Rv 6:7And when He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature, saying, Come.
Rv 6:8And I saw, and behold, a pale horse, and he who sits upon it, his name is Death; and Hades followed with him. And authority was given to them over the fourth part of the earth to kill with the sword and with famine and with death and by the beasts of the earth.
Rv 6:9And when He opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony which they had.
Rv 6:10And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Master, holy and true, will You not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?
Rv 6:11And to each of them was given a white robe; and it was said to them that they should rest yet a little while, until also the number of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were about to be killed, even as they were, is completed.
Rv 6:12And I saw when He opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black like sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon became like blood;
Rv 6:13And the stars of heaven fell to the earth as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind.
Rv 6:14And heaven was removed like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
Rv 6:15And the kings of the earth and the great men and the generals and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains;
Rv 6:16And they say to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who sits upon the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb;
Rv 6:17For the great day of Their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?
Rv 7:1After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth nor on the sea nor on any tree.
Rv 7:2And I saw another Angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God; and He cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom authority was given to harm the earth and the sea,
Rv 7:3Saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we seal the slaves of our God upon their foreheads.
Rv 7:4And I heard the number of those who were sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel:
Rv 7:5Out of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand sealed; out of the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
Rv 7:6Out of the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
Rv 7:7Out of the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand;
Rv 7:8Out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand sealed.
Rv 7:9After these things I saw, and behold, there was a great multitude which no one could number, out of every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes and palm branches in their hands.
Rv 7:10And they cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb.
Rv 7:11And all the angels stood around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures; and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God,
Rv 7:12Saying, Amen. The blessing and the glory and the wisdom and the thanks and the honor and the power and the strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen.
Rv 7:13And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed in the white robes, who are they, and where did they come from?
Rv 7:14And I said to him, My lord, you know. And he said to me, These are those who come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Rv 7:15Because of this they are before the throne of God and serve Him day and night in His temple; and He who sits upon the throne will tabernacle over them.
Rv 7:16They will not hunger anymore, neither will they thirst anymore, neither will the sun beat upon them, nor any heat;
Rv 7:17For the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and guide them to springs of waters of life; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
Rv 8:1And when He opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
Rv 8:2And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
Rv 8:3And another Angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer, and much incense was given to Him to offer with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
Rv 8:4And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the saints out of the hand of the Angel before God.
Rv 8:5And the Angel took the censer and filled it with the fire of the altar and cast it to the earth; and there were thunders and voices and lightnings and an earthquake.
Rv 8:6And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to trumpet.
Rv 8:7And the first trumpeted, and there was hail and fire mingled with blood, and it was cast to the earth; and the third part of the earth was burned up, and the third part of the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.
Rv 8:8And the second angel trumpeted, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea; and the third part of the sea became blood,
Rv 8:9And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died, and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
Rv 8:10And the third angel trumpeted, and a great star fell out of heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the springs of waters.
Rv 8:11And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died from the waters because they were made bitter.
Rv 8:12And the fourth angel trumpeted, and the third part of the sun and the third part of the moon and the third part of the stars were smitten, so that the third part of them would be darkened and the day would not appear for the third part of it, and the night likewise.
Rv 8:13And I saw, and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to those who dwell on the earth because of the remaining trumpet sounds of the three angels who are about to trumpet!
Rv 9:1And the fifth angel trumpeted, and I saw a star out of heaven fallen to the earth, and to him was given the key of the pit of the abyss.
Rv 9:2And he opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke went up out of the pit like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit.
Rv 9:3And out of the smoke came forth locusts to the earth, and to them power was given, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
Rv 9:4And it was said to them that they should not harm the grass of the earth or any green thing or any tree, but men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
Rv 9:5And it was given them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months; and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it strikes a man.
Rv 9:6And in those days men will seek death and shall by no means find it; and they will long to die, and death flees from them.
Rv 9:7And the locusts were like horses prepared for war, and on their heads there were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were like faces of men.
Rv 9:8And they had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
Rv 9:9And they had breastplates like breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots of many horses rushing into war.
Rv 9:10And they have tails like scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to harm men for five months.
Rv 9:11They have a king over them, the angel of the abyss; his name in Hebrew is Abaddon; and in Greek he has the name Apollyon.
Rv 9:12The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are yet coming after these things.
Rv 9:13And the sixth angel trumpeted, and I heard a voice out of the four horns of the golden altar which is before God
Rv 9:14Saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.
Rv 9:15And the four angels were released, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year that they might kill the third part of men.
Rv 9:16And the number of the armies of horsemen was two hundred million; I heard their number.
Rv 9:17And thus I saw the horses in the vision and those sitting on them, having breastplates of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone; and the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and out of their mouths proceed fire and smoke and brimstone.
Rv 9:18By these three plagues the third part of the men were killed, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone proceeding out of their mouths.
Rv 9:19For the power of the horses is in their mouth and in their tails; for their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they harm men.
Rv 9:20And the rest of the men, who were not killed by these plagues, still did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship the demons and the idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which can neither see nor hear nor walk;
Rv 9:21And they did not repent of their murders or of their sorceries or of their fornication or of their thefts.
Rv 10:1And I saw another strong Angel coming down out of heaven, clothed with a cloud; and the rainbow was upon His head, and His face was like the sun, and His feet like pillars of fire;
Rv 10:2And He had in His hand a little opened scroll. And He placed His right foot on the sea and the left on the land;
Rv 10:3And He cried out with a loud voice just as a lion roars. And when He cried out, the seven thunders uttered their own voices.
Rv 10:4And when the seven thunders spoke, I was about to write, and I heard a voice out of heaven, saying, Seal the things which the seven thunders spoke, and do not write them.
Rv 10:5And the Angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted up His right hand to heaven
Rv 10:6And swore by Him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it, that there shall be delay no longer,
Rv 10:7But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel when he is about to trumpet, then the mystery of God is finished, as He has announced the good news to His own slaves the prophets.
Rv 10:8And the voice which I heard out of heaven, I heard again speaking with me and saying, Go, take the opened scroll in the hand of the Angel who is standing on the sea and on the land.
Rv 10:9And I went to the Angel and told Him to give me the little scroll. And He said to me, Take it and devour it, and it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.
Rv 10:10And I took the little scroll out of the hand of the Angel and devoured it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth; and when I had eaten it, my stomach became bitter.
Rv 10:11And they said to me, You must prophesy again over many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.
Rv 11:1And there was given to me a reed like a rod, and someone said, Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship in it.
Rv 11:2And the court which is outside the temple cast out and do not measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months.
Rv 11:3And I will cause My two witnesses to prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
Rv 11:4These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands which stand before the Lord of the earth.
Rv 11:5And if anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. And if anyone desires to harm them, thus must he be killed.
Rv 11:6These have the authority to shut heaven that no rain may fall during the days of their prophecy; and they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood and to smite the earth with every plague as often as they desire.
Rv 11:7And when they have completed their testimony, the beast who comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and will overcome them and kill them.
Rv 11:8And their corpses will be on the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified.
Rv 11:9And those of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations see their corpses for three and a half days, and they do not allow their corpses to be placed in a tomb.
Rv 11:10And those who dwell on the earth rejoice over them and make merry; and they will send gifts to one another because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
Rv 11:11And after the three and a half days, the breath of life out of God entered into them, and they stood on their feet; and great fear fell upon those beholding them.
Rv 11:12And they heard a loud voice out of heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them.
Rv 11:13And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; and seven thousand men were killed in the earthquake, and the rest became terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
Rv 11:14The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is coming quickly.
Rv 11:15And the seventh angel trumpeted; and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ, and He will reign forever and ever.
Rv 11:16And the twenty-four elders who sit before God on their thrones fell on their faces and worshipped God,
Rv 11:17Saying, We thank You, Lord God the Almighty, He who is and who was, because You have taken Your great power and have reigned.
Rv 11:18And the nations became angry, and Your wrath came, and the time came for the dead to be judged, and the time to give the reward to Your slaves the prophets and to the saints and to those who fear Your name, to the small and to the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
Rv 11:19And the temple of God which is in heaven was opened, and the Ark of His Covenant was seen in His temple; and there were lightnings and voices and thunders and an earthquake and great hail.
Rv 12:1And a great sign was seen in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon underneath her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars;
Rv 12:2And she was with child, and she cried out, travailing in birth and being in pain to bring forth.
Rv 12:3And another sign was seen in heaven; and behold, there was a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems.
Rv 12:4And his tail drags away the third part of the stars of heaven, and he cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to bring forth, so that when she brings forth he might devour her child.
Rv 12:5And she brought forth a son, a man-child, who is to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod; and her child was caught up to God and to His throne.
Rv 12:6And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place there prepared by God so that they might nourish her there a thousand two hundred and sixty days.
Rv 12:7And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels went to war with the dragon. And the dragon warred and his angels.
Rv 12:8And they did not prevail, neither was their place found any longer in heaven.
Rv 12:9And the great dragon was cast down, the ancient serpent, he who is called the Devil and Satan, he who deceives the whole inhabited earth; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast down with him.
Rv 12:10And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, Now has come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ, for the accuser of our brothers has been cast down, who accuses them before our God day and night.
Rv 12:11And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb and because of the word of their testimony, and they loved not their soul-life even unto death.
Rv 12:12Therefore be glad, O heavens and those who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and the sea because the devil has come down to you and has great rage, knowing that he has only a short time.
Rv 12:13And when the dragon saw that he was cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who brought forth the man-child.
Rv 12:14And to the woman there were given the two wings of the great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness into her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time from the face of the serpent.
Rv 12:15And the serpent cast water as a river out of his mouth after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away by its current.
Rv 12:16And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
Rv 12:17And the dragon became angry with the woman and went away to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus.
Rv 12:18And he stood on the sand of the sea.
Rv 13:1And I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns ten diadems, and on his heads names of blasphemy.
Rv 13:2And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and his throne and great authority.
Rv 13:3And one of his heads was as it were slain to death, and his death stroke was healed. And the whole earth marveled after the beast.
Rv 13:4And they worshipped the dragon because he gave his authority to the beast; and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who can make war with him?
Rv 13:5And there was given to him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and authority was given to him to act for forty-two months.
Rv 13:6And he opened his mouth for blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle, which tabernacle in heaven.
Rv 13:7And permission was given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them; and authority was given to him over every tribe and people and tongue and nation.
Rv 13:8And all those dwelling on the earth will worship him, everyone whose name is not written in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain from the foundation of the world.
Rv 13:9If anyone has an ear, let him hear.
Rv 13:10If anyone is for captivity, into captivity he goes; if anyone kills with the sword, with the sword he is to be killed. Here is the endurance and the faith of the saints.
Rv 13:11And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon.
Rv 13:12And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his sight, and he causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, whose death stroke was healed.
Rv 13:13And he does great signs, so that he even makes fire come down out of heaven to the earth before men.
Rv 13:14And he deceives those who dwell on the earth on account of the signs which he was given power to do before the beast, commanding those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast, who had the stroke of the sword and revived.
Rv 13:15And power was given to him to give breath to the image of the beast that the image of the beast might even speak and cause whoever would not worship the image of the beast to be killed.
Rv 13:16And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the freemen and the slaves, to be given a mark on their right hand or on their forehead,
Rv 13:17And that no one may be able to buy or sell except him who has the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of his name.
Rv 13:18Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred sixty-six.
Rv 14:1And I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him a hundred and forty-four thousand, having His name and the name of His Father written on their foreheads.
Rv 14:2And I heard a voice out of heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder; and the voice which I heard was like the sound of harp-singers playing on their harps.
Rv 14:3And they sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; and no one could learn the song except the hundred and forty-four thousand, who have been purchased from the earth.
Rv 14:4These are they who have not been defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are they who follow the Lamb wherever He may go. These were purchased from among men as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
Rv 14:5And in their mouth no lie was found; they are without blemish.
Rv 14:6And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven, having an eternal gospel to announce to those dwelling on the earth, even to every nation and tribe and tongue and people,
Rv 14:7Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give Him glory because the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who has made heaven and earth and the sea and the springs of waters.
Rv 14:8And another angel, a second one, followed, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, who has made all the nations drink of the wine of the fury of her fornication!
Rv 14:9And another angel, a third one, followed them, saying with a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
Rv 14:10He also shall drink of the wine of the fury of God, which is mixed undiluted in the cup of His wrath; and he shall be tormented in fire and brimstone before the holy angels and before the Lamb.
Rv 14:11And the smoke of their tormenting goes up forever and ever; and they have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.
Rv 14:12Here is the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
Rv 14:13And I heard a voice out of heaven, saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow with them.
Rv 14:14And I saw, and behold, there was a white cloud, and on the cloud One like the Son of Man sitting, having a golden crown on His head and a sharp sickle in His hand.
Rv 14:15And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to Him who sat on the cloud, Send forth Your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come because the harvest of the earth is ripe.
Rv 14:16And He who sat on the cloud thrust His sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Rv 14:17And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.
Rv 14:18And another angel came out of the altar, he who has authority over fire, and he cried with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripened.
Rv 14:19And the angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine of the earth and cast it into the great winepress of the fury of God.
Rv 14:20And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress up to the bridles of the horses for a thousand six hundred stadia.
Rv 15:1And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wonderful, seven angels having seven plagues, the last plagues; for in them the fury of God was finished.
Rv 15:2And I saw as it were a glassy sea mingled with fire and those who come away victorious from the beast and from his image and from the number of his name standing on the glassy sea, having harps of God.
Rv 15:3And they sing the song of Moses, the slave of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and wonderful are Your works, Lord God the Almighty! Righteous and true are Your ways, O King of the nations!
Rv 15:4Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy; for all the nations will come and worship before You, for Your righteous judgments have been manifested.
Rv 15:5And after these things I saw, and the temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony in heaven was opened,
Rv 15:6And the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, clothed in clean bright linen and girded around the breasts with golden girdles.
Rv 15:7And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the fury of God, who lives forever and ever.
Rv 15:8And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from His power, and no one could enter into the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.
Rv 16:1And I heard a loud voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the fury of God into the earth.
Rv 16:2And the first went and poured out his bowl into the earth; and there came to be an evil and malignant sore upon the men who have the mark of the beast and worship his image.
Rv 16:3And the second poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood like that of a dead man; and every living soul that was in the sea died.
Rv 16:4And the third poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters; and they became blood.
Rv 16:5And I heard the angel who had power over the waters, saying, You are righteous, who is and who was, the Holy One, because You have judged these things;
Rv 16:6For they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and You have given them blood to drink; they are worthy of it.
Rv 16:7And I heard the altar saying, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and righteous are Your judgments.
Rv 16:8And the fourth poured out his bowl upon the sun; and it was given to it to burn men with fire.
Rv 16:9And men were burned with great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who has the authority over these plagues, and they did not repent so as to give Him glory.
Rv 16:10And the fifth poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast; and his kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues for pain
Rv 16:11And blasphemed the God of heaven for their pains and for their sores; and they did not repent of their works.
Rv 16:12And the sixth poured out his bowl upon the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared.
Rv 16:13And I saw, out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits as frogs;
Rv 16:14For they are spirits of demons doing signs, which go forth to the kings of the whole inhabited earth to gather them to the war of the great day of God the Almighty.
Rv 16:15(Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments that he may not walk naked and they see his shame.)
Rv 16:16And they gathered them to the place which in Hebrew is called, Armageddon.
Rv 16:17And the seventh poured out his bowl upon the air; and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, It is done.
Rv 16:18And there were lightnings and voices and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as had not been since man appeared on the earth, such an earthquake, so great.
Rv 16:19And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the Great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of the fury of His wrath.
Rv 16:20And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
Rv 16:21And great hail, every stone about the weight of a talent, came down out of heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God for the plague of the hail, because the plague of it is exceedingly great.
Rv 17:1And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come here; I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits upon the many waters,
Rv 17:2With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and those who dwell on the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.
Rv 17:3And he carried me away in spirit into a wilderness; and I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
Rv 17:4And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and gilded with gold and precious stone and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the unclean things of her fornication.
Rv 17:5And on her forehead there was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF THE HARLOTS AND THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
Rv 17:6And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And I marveled with great marvel when I saw her.
Rv 17:7And the angel said to me, Why did you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast who bears her, who has the seven heads and the ten horns.
Rv 17:8The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to come up out of the abyss and go into perdition. And those who dwell on the earth, those whose names are not written from the foundation of the world in the book of life, will marvel when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will be present.
Rv 17:9Here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are the seven mountains where the woman sits
Rv 17:10And are seven kings: five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he must remain only a short time.
Rv 17:11And the beast who was and is not, he himself is also the eighth and is out of the seven and goes into perdition.
Rv 17:12And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings, who have not yet received a kingdom but receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast.
Rv 17:13These have one mind, and they give their power and authority to the beast.
Rv 17:14These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for He is Lord of lords and King of kings; and they who are with Him, the called and chosen and faithful, will also overcome them.
Rv 17:15And he said to me, The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.
Rv 17:16And the ten horns which you saw and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked and will eat her flesh and burn her utterly with fire.
Rv 17:17For God has put it into their hearts to perform His mind and to perform one mind and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God are accomplished.
Rv 17:18And the woman whom you saw is the great city, which has a kingdom over the kings of the earth.
Rv 18:1After these things I saw another Angel coming down out of heaven, having great authority; and the earth was illumined with His glory.
Rv 18:2And He cried with a strong voice, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great! And she has become a dwelling place of demons and a hold of every unclean spirit and a hold of every unclean and hateful bird;
Rv 18:3For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the fury of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich by the power of her luxury.
Rv 18:4And I heard another voice out of heaven, saying, Come out of her, My people, that you do not participate in her sins and that you do not receive her plagues;
Rv 18:5For her sins have accumulated up to heaven, and God has remembered her unrighteousnesses.
Rv 18:6Pay her back even as she has paid, and double to her double according to her works; in the cup which she has mixed, mix to her double.
Rv 18:7As much as she has glorified herself and lived luxuriously, as much torment and sorrow give to her; for she says in her heart, I sit a queen, and I am not a widow, and I shall by no means see sorrow.
Rv 18:8Therefore in one day her plagues will come, death and sorrow and famine, and she will be utterly burned with fire; for the Lord God who judges her is strong.
Rv 18:9And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived luxuriously with her, will weep and lament over her when they see the smoke of her burning,
Rv 18:10Standing afar off because of fear of her torment, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city, for in one hour your judgment has come!
Rv 18:11And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargo anymore:
Rv 18:12Cargo of gold and silver and precious stone and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, and every kind of thyine wood, and every vessel of ivory, and every vessel of most precious wood and brass and iron and marble,
Rv 18:13And cinnamon and amomum and incense and ointment and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep, and cargo of horses and chariots and slaves and souls of men.
Rv 18:14And the ripe fruits of your soul’s lust have gone away from you, and all the sumptuous and splendid things have perished from you; and men will find them no more at all.
Rv 18:15The merchants of these things, who became rich by her, will stand afar off because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,
Rv 18:16Saying, Woe, woe, the great city, which was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and gilded with gold and precious stone and pearl;
Rv 18:17For in one hour such great wealth has become desolate! And every ship captain and everyone sailing to a place and sailors and all who work on the sea stood afar off
Rv 18:18And cried out, seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like the great city?
Rv 18:19And they cast dust on their heads and cried out, weeping and mourning, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, by which all those who have ships on the sea became rich from her wealth, for in one hour she has become desolate!
Rv 18:20Be glad over her, O heaven and saints and apostles and prophets, because God has judged judgment for you upon her.
Rv 18:21And a strong angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, Thus will Babylon, the great city, be thrown down with violence and shall be found no more at all.
Rv 18:22And the sound of harp-singers and musicians and flutists and trumpeters shall be heard no more at all in you, and no craftsman of any craft shall be found anymore at all in you, and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in you,
Rv 18:23And the light of a lamp shall shine no more at all in you, and the voice of bridegroom and bride shall be heard no more at all in you; for your merchants were the great ones of the earth, for by your sorcery all the nations were deceived.
Rv 18:24And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who have been slain on the earth.
Rv 19:1After these things I heard as it were a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, Hallelujah! The salvation and the glory and the power are of our God.
Rv 19:2For true and righteous are His judgments; for He has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and He avenged the blood of His slaves at her hand.
Rv 19:3And a second time they said, Hallelujah! And her smoke goes up forever and ever.
Rv 19:4And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who sits upon the throne, saying, Amen, Hallelujah!
Rv 19:5And a voice came out from the throne, saying, Praise our God, all His slaves and those who fear Him, the small and the great.
Rv 19:6And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty thunders, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns.
Rv 19:7Let us rejoice and exult, and let us give the glory to Him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and His wife has made herself ready.
Rv 19:8And it was given to her that she should be clothed in fine linen, bright and clean; for the fine linen is the righteousnesses of the saints.
Rv 19:9And he said to me, Write, Blessed are they who are called to the marriage dinner of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God.
Rv 19:10And I fell before his feet to worship him. And he said to me, Do not do this. I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of the prophecy.
Rv 19:11And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and He who sits on it called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and makes war.
Rv 19:12And His eyes are a flame of fire, and on His head are many diadems, and He has a name written which no one knows but Himself.
Rv 19:13And He is clothed with a garment dipped in blood; and His name is called the Word of God.
Rv 19:14And the armies which are in heaven followed Him on white horses, dressed in fine linen, white and clean.
Rv 19:15And out of His mouth proceeds a sharp sword, that with it He might smite the nations; and He will shepherd them with an iron rod; and He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
Rv 19:16And He has on His garment and on His thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
Rv 19:17And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in mid-heaven, Come here; gather yourselves to the great dinner of God,
Rv 19:18That you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of generals and the flesh of mighty men and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them and the flesh of all men, both free and slave and small and great.
Rv 19:19And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war with Him who sits on the horse and with His army.
Rv 19:20And the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet, who in his presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These two were cast alive into the lake of fire, which burns with brimstone.
Rv 19:21And the rest were killed with the sword which proceeds out of the mouth of Him who sits on the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh.
Rv 20:1And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
Rv 20:2And he laid hold of the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years
Rv 20:3And cast him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him, that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were completed; after these things he must be loosed for a little while.
Rv 20:4And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the word of God, and of those who had not worshipped the beast nor his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand; and they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Rv 20:5The rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
Rv 20:6Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with Him for a thousand years.
Rv 20:7And when the thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his prison
Rv 20:8And will go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war. Their number is like that of the sand of the sea.
Rv 20:9And they went up upon the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city; and fire came down out of heaven and devoured them.
Rv 20:10And the devil, who deceived them, was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where also the beast and the false prophet were; and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
Rv 20:11And I saw a great white throne and Him who sat upon it, from whose face earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them.
Rv 20:12And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened; and another scroll was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by the things which were written in the scrolls, according to their works.
Rv 20:13And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them; and they were judged, each of them, according to their works.
Rv 20:14And death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
Rv 20:15And if anyone was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire.
Rv 21:1And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and the sea is no more.
Rv 21:2And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
Rv 21:3And I heard a loud voice out of the throne, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will tabernacle with them, and they will be His peoples, and God Himself will be with them and be their God.
Rv 21:4And He will wipe away every tear from their eyes; and death will be no more, nor will there be sorrow or crying or pain anymore; for the former things have passed away.
Rv 21:5And He who sits on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And He said, Write, for these words are faithful and true.
Rv 21:6And He said to me, They have come to pass. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give to him who thirsts from the spring of the water of life freely.
Rv 21:7He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be God to him, and he will be a son to Me.
Rv 21:8But the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and fornicators and sorcerers and idolaters and all the false, their part will be in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
Rv 21:9And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, Come here; I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.
Rv 21:10And he carried me away in spirit onto a great and high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
Rv 21:11Having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, as clear as crystal.
Rv 21:12It had a great and high wall and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names inscribed, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel:
Rv 21:13On the east three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west three gates.
Rv 21:14And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Rv 21:15And he who spoke with me had a golden reed as a measure that he might measure the city and its gates and its wall.
Rv 21:16And the city lies square, and its length is as great as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed to a length of twelve thousand stadia; the length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
Rv 21:17And he measured its wall, a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.
Rv 21:18And the building work of its wall was jasper; and the city was pure gold, like clear glass.
Rv 21:19The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;
Rv 21:20The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; the twelfth, amethyst.
Rv 21:21And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; each one of the gates was, respectively, of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
Rv 21:22And I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its temple.
Rv 21:23And the city has no need of the sun or of the moon that they should shine in it, for the glory of God illumined it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
Rv 21:24And the nations will walk by its light; and the kings of the earth bring their glory into it.
Rv 21:25And its gates shall by no means be shut by day, for there will be no night there.
Rv 21:26And they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it.
Rv 21:27And anything common and he who makes an abomination and a lie shall by no means enter into it, but only those who are written in the Lamb’s book of life.
Rv 22:1And he showed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb in the middle of its street.
Rv 22:2And on this side and on that side of the river was the tree of life, producing twelve fruits, yielding its fruit each month; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.
Rv 22:3And there will no longer be a curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His slaves will serve Him;
Rv 22:4And they will see His face, and His name will be on their foreheads.
Rv 22:5And night will be no more; and they have no need of the light of a lamp and of the light of the sun, for the Lord God will shine upon them; and they will reign forever and ever.
Rv 22:6And he said to me, These words are faithful and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent His angel to show to His slaves the things which must quickly take place.
Rv 22:7And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
Rv 22:8And I John am he who hears and sees these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
Rv 22:9And he said to me, Do not do that! I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers the prophets and of those who keep the words of this scroll. Worship God.
Rv 22:10And he said to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for the time is near.
Rv 22:11Let him who does unrighteousness do unrighteousness still; and let him who is filthy be filthy still; and let him who is righteous do righteousness still; and let him who is holy be holy still.
Rv 22:12Behold, I come quickly, and My reward is with Me to render to each one as his work is.
Rv 22:13I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Rv 22:14Blessed are those who wash their robes that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter by the gates into the city.
Rv 22:15Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and makes a lie.
Rv 22:16I Jesus have sent My angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright morning star.
Rv 22:17And the Spirit and the bride say, Come! And let him who hears say, Come! And let him who is thirsty come; let him who wills take the water of life freely.
Rv 22:18I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this scroll;
Rv 22:19And if anyone takes away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and out of the holy city, which are written in this scroll.
Rv 22:20He who testifies these things says, Yes, I come quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
Rv 22:21The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all the saints. Amen.